The world in brief
Catch up quickly on the global stories that matter
Articles updated less than 1 hour ago.
 
Audio recorded 3 hours ago
Photograph: Getty Images

Listen to the briefing
Stay ahead with latest updates by following The World in Brief on your podcast player

Several ships passed through the Strait of Hormuz, including some that had left from Iranian ports, according to tracking data. It is unclear whether the vessels had departed before America’s blockade of ships using Iranian ports and coastal areas in the strait. Meanwhile China, which relies on Iranian crude, called the blockade “dangerous and irresponsible”, warning that it would threaten Iran and America’s fragile ceasefire.

America’s secretary of state, Marco Rubio, will attend talks between Israeli and Lebanese officials in Washington, DC. Lebanon’s government wants to use the meeting—the first between the two countries since 1993—to negotiate a ceasefire. Israel insists that Hizbullah, an Iran-backed militia, must disarm first. Israeli strikes have killed an estimated 2,000 people in Lebanon since the Iran war began.

Russia’s oil export revenues nearly doubled in March to $19bn compared with $9.8bn in February, according to the International Energy Association, an official forecaster. The country produced about 9m barrels a day, up from 8.7m in February. Russia has been enjoying a windfall from the Iran war, which has increased oil prices. But Ukrainian attacks on Russia’s oil infrastructure continue to eat into profits.

JPMorgan Chase reported its second-most profitable quarter ever. Market volatility caused by the Iran war and regime change in Venezuela helped raise net income, which rose to $16.5bn from $14.6bn in the same quarter last year. The lender’s share price, however, fell in pre-market trading. The bank cut its forecast for net interest income for the year to $103bn from $104.5bn.

Novo Nordisk said it would partner with OpenAI, the maker of ChatGPT, to develop its drugs. The Danish pharmaceutical giant said it will use OpenAI’s products to analyse data, “identify promising drug candidates” and speed up operations. Novo, which sells Wegovy, a weight-loss drug, has introduced several new products this year in a bid to claw back market share from Eli Lilly, an American rival.

Airlines for Europe, an industry group, urged the EU to help mitigate airspace closures and jet fuel shortages caused by the Iran war. The group, which includes Lufthansa and easyJet, called for the EU to temporarily drop its requirement for airlines to buy its permits to emit carbon and suspend some aviation taxes. Jet fuel prices have more than doubled since the war began.

Pope Leo XIV vowed to “continue to speak out loudly” despite attacks by Mr Trump, who called him “weak on crime” on social media. The American pontiff has criticised the Trump administration’s deportation policies and war in the Middle East. Mr Trump also shared, then deleted, an AI image of himself as a Christ-like figure. He implausibly claimed he thought it portrayed him as a doctor.

Figure of the day: More than 500,000, the number of American tech jobs that are now “missing”. Read about how the tech jobs bust is real.

How well have you been following the week’s headlines? Test your knowledge of the news with our weekly quiz.

Photograph: Getty Images
Oil shock chops forecasts for the global economy
Even if the ceasefire between America and Iran holds, and shipping through the Strait of Hormuz normalises, the drop in global oil supplies is expected to keep the price of crude above $90 a barrel until the end of 2026. America’s blockade of the strait, which started on Monday, will increase the upward pressure on prices.
That will preoccupy policymakers who are gathering this week in Washington for the IMF’s and World Bank’s spring meetings. On Tuesday the IMF is expected to forecast higher global inflation and weaker growth. Bank of America has already cut its growth forecast for 2026 by 0.4 percentage points, to 3.1%, and raised its inflation outlook by 0.9 percentage points.
Developing markets will feel the most pain. Higher import bills are widening their trade deficits and weakening currencies. Investors could pull out cash. The IMF has warned it may need to extend $50bn in emergency support to such countries.

Photograph: Getty Images
How long can Iran stand the blockade?
Iran has used its blockade of the Strait of Hormuz to exert pressure on America to cease its attacks. Now, Donald Trump wants to turn the tables. America’s own blockade, which started on Monday, aims to sever Iran’s economic lifeline to weaken its bargaining position: without oil exports Iran will struggle to pay for vital imports, even if they can still arrive through Caspian ports or overland.
But Iran is prepared for disruption. In 2020, when Mr Trump tried to crush the country’s economy, crude exports fell below 400,000 barrels a day, down from 2.2m b/d in 2018. This time it can endure for perhaps six months by printing money, selling 100m or so barrels of oil in storage off Malaysia and China, and securing informal credit from suppliers of imports. The blockade will hurt America and its allies too, by further squeezing energy markets. Iran’s leaders may still have time on their side.


Subscriber only | The World in Brief
Catch up quickly on the stories that matter
Sign up to enjoy a mind-expanding mix of stories, delivered six days a week
Sign up

Photograph: Reuters
Sánchez’s outspoken foreign policy
On Tuesday Pedro Sánchez, Spain’s Socialist prime minister, met China’s leader, Xi Jinping, during his fourth visit to the country in as many years. His message is clear: under his leadership, Spain is seeking alternatives to the alliance with Donald Trump’s America. Mr Sánchez has been the most confrontational of Europe’s leaders, preventing America from using joint air and naval bases and Spanish airspace for the war on Iran.
This stance is popular in Spain and in some other countries, but some in the EU are less trustful of China. And Spain may face reprisals. Israel has expelled it from the international monitoring force in Gaza; Mr Trump has mused about barring imports from Spain and moving the military bases. Yet Mr Sánchez appears undeterred. On his return from China, he will gather sympathetic leaders from Europe and developing countries to vent more frustrations about Mr Trump.

Photograph: Getty Images
China’s exports defy expectations
When Donald Trump applied tariffs of up to 145% on Chinese goods last year, it looked as though China’s export machinery would stutter. But by the end of 2025 the country had a record $1.2trn trade surplus, with $3.8trn in exports. Figures released on Tuesday showed that China’s exports rose by 14.7% in the first three months of this year, compared with the same period last year.
Exports were hit by the closure of the Strait of Hormuz. Still, China’s products are fiercely competitive in other countries. Its “real” exchange rate—adjusted for prices—has fallen by 15% since 2022. Since the tariffs, Chinese firms have proven skilful at finding new markets for their wares: exports to America dropped by about $100bn last year, but this was more than compensated by additional sales elsewhere, worth some $300bn. China’s manufacturers hope the boom can continue. America’s tariffs on China—though still high—have fallen considerably. And while demand at home remains limp, foreign buyers are happily picking up the slack.


Photograph: Getty Images
The Philippines’ fiercest family feud
A congressional committee in the Philippines heard its first evidence in impeachment proceedings against Sara Duterte, the vice-president, on Tuesday. Ms Duterte is accused of threatening to kill the president, Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, and of skulduggery with public funds. She spurned the committee’s invitation to dispute the accusations (and has separately denied wrongdoing). If congress impeaches Ms Duterte and finds her culpable, it would thwart her ambition to succeed Mr Marcos in elections in 2028. She is currently the frontrunner.
Ms Duterte is the daughter of Rodrigo Duterte, president between 2016 and 2022. Mr Marcos made an enemy of her by sending her father to prison last year. Mr Duterte is now detained by the International Criminal Court, suspected of committing crimes against humanity during a bloodthirsty campaign against illegal drugs. The Marcos camp fears that if Ms Duterte becomes president, she will take revenge on them. Impeachment could be their best chance of stopping her.

Illustration: Sandra Navarro
Daily quiz
We will serve you a new question each weekday. On Friday your challenge is to give us all five answers and tell us the theme. Email your responses (and your home city and country) by 1700 BST on Friday to QuizEspresso@economist.com. We’ll pick three winners at random and crown them on Saturday.
Tuesday: Brussels is the capital of which region in Belgium?
Monday: Which American film-maker is known for documentary series on the American civil war, baseball and the Vietnam war?
The supreme accomplishment is to blur the line between work and play.

Arnold Toynbee

