2026-04-10_WaPo_Mainpage

christian.piatt
Logo of The Washington Post
Democracy Dies in Darkness
Politics

Opinions

Style

Investigations

Climate

Well+Being

Business

Tech

World

D.C., Md. & Va.

Sports

WP Intelligence

Ask The Post AI

Trump started the Iran war with 5 goals. How far has he really gotten?
The president claimed he achieved them all. The reality is more complicated.
By Amy B Wang and Mariana Alfaro

(Maxine Wallace/The Post)
Trump fumes as Iran retains choke hold on Strait of Hormuz ahead of peace talks
China helped broker Iran truce, but it’s wary of deeper involvement
Inflation probably picked up in March, fueled by Iran conflict
Economists expect March CPI to show inflation at 3.4 percent as the war in Iran drove a sharp rise in energy costs.
By Andrew Ackerman

(AP)
Countries are turning against U.S. fossil fuels after Iran war

(Boston Globe/Getty Images)
Democrats fret in Maine as Schumer’s pick stumbles
Maine’s Democratic governor, Janet Mills, has gone negative against Graham Platner. The attacks have not worked, and Minority Leader Charles Schumer so far has declined to bail her out.
By Liz Goodwin and Dan Merica
The DNC expected big money after big Democratic wins. It never came.

(Natalie Vineberg/The Post)
AI could vastly streamline policing. Skeptics urge caution.
Police agencies are increasingly using artificial intelligence to help their criminal investigations. The results can be dramatic, but skeptics urge caution.
By Katie Mettler

(Rachel Woolf for The Post)
After record highs, Colorado’s legal pot market faces a sobering gut check
Oversupply and competition from other states have helped upend Colorado’s legal cannabis market, which was the nation’s first.
By Karin Brulliard

(iStock)
Why women may feel they need more sleep than men
There are a few subtle differences between men and women when it comes to getting some shut-eye.
By Lindsey Bever

(Reuters)
From private chefs to $1.50 sandwiches, food dominates the Masters
At golf’s crown jewel, the menu rarely changes. The prices never do.
By Rick Maese
He’s a high school senior – and paired with Rory McIlroy at the Masters
Exclusive Intelligence Reports
A trusted briefing service designed to help decision-makers translate insight into meaningful action. WP Intelligence operates independently of The Washington Post newsroom.
Explore WP Intelligence

Opinions
Julia Yost
Why Catholicism appeals to the TikTok generation
1 hour ago

George F. Will
An unpardonable abuse of presidential power with only one solution
1 hour ago

Jason Willick
This poll shows the political risk to Israel from the war in Iran
17 minutes ago
Jake Braun
U.S. water infrastructure is vulnerable to hacks. Iran knows it.

Megan McArdle
I'm not anti-tax. But this one should go.
Listen
Listen
18 min

Editorial Board
NATO’s deeper problem

Michael Ramirez
Cartoon: Rerun
Carrie Sheffield
Countless Americans face a scary retirement. This rule could change that.
Alexander Sundermann
This is a tale of two outbreaks. The difference is RFK Jr.

Kathleen Parker
What Trump might see from space

Leana S. Wen
Meet Abi, the AI-powered robot companion for senior care

Fareed Zakaria
U.S. power rests on open seas
59 minutes ago

More Top Stories

(Cal Cary for The Post)
Blindfolds, blue leotards and Madonna: A two-minute protest at the Lincoln Memorial
Melania Trump denies close ties to Jeffrey Epstein in rare public statement
As ICE ramped up in D.C., immigrant crime victims faced visa roadblocks
NASA’s Artemis II crew is expected to splash down Friday evening
DOJ presses for its own search of Post reporter’s phone and laptops
Maryland settles with owner of ship that crashed into Baltimore’s Key Bridge
‘Crossing guard diva’ with remarkable past is a social media star in her 80s
Most Read
1
Trump started the Iran war with 5 goals. How far has he really gotten?
2
OpinionGeorge F. Will
An unpardonable abuse of presidential power with only one solution
3
Countries are turning against U.S. fossil fuels after Iran war
4
ColumnCarolyn Hax
Carolyn Hax: Husband’s abandoned Hollywood dreams come back to haunt his family
Latest from The Post

OpinionEditorial Board
U.S. missile burn rate in Iran leaves the Pacific cupboard bare
4 minutes ago

What parents need to know about ‘You, Me & Tuscany,’ ‘The Testaments’ and more
1 hour ago

AnalysisMatthew Choi and Dan Merica
The Iran war is fanning the flames of inflation

5 fantastical costumes from drag star Sasha Velour’s new show
Better Living

Hooked on social media? This detox could erase damage to your brain.

Reader Q&A
Cooking chat: Do I need to wash my onions before chopping?

11 easy ways to declutter while you’re spring cleaning

As you age, eating these nutrients becomes even more important
Politics & Government

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. (Matt McClain/The Post)
Pentagon violated court order to restore press access, federal judge rules
Senior U.S. District Judge Paul L. Friedman also admonished the Trump administration, saying suppressing political speech is the “mark of an autocracy, not a democracy.”
By Scott Nover
Exclusive
CDC delays publishing report showing covid vaccine benefits
USDA secretary’s ‘He is Risen’ Easter email unnerves some staff members
Tako? Takou? TACO-ru? Decoding the Trump TACO meme around the world.
Supreme Court remade by Trump ushers in historic defeats for civil rights
White House struggles to prop up truce marked by confusion, contradictions
A GOP-aligned group is using Klan imagery to target Black voters

Business & Technology

ProPublica journalists go on strike partly over use of AI
When will prices come down for gas, air travel and strawberries?
ColumnMichelle Singletary
Trump’s labor plan is a massive 401(k) greed grab for Wall Street
U.S. journalist Shelly Kittleson, kidnapped in Iraq, is freed in prisoner swap
Trump threatens to jail reporters if they don’t turn over Iran source
National

A legendary food writer’s office treasures paint a portrait of a full life
U.S. fertility rate hits a new low as teenage births fall, CDC says
In Texas, a state hearing on social studies becomes a clash of religions
Colleges scramble to help students with tuition ahead of loan limits for parents
Jim Whittaker, the first American to summit Mount Everest, dies at 97
World

In shelters for people displaced by war in Lebanon, not everyone is welcome
Israel to open direct talks with Lebanon but not halt attacks on Hezbollah
Why fewer hurricanes are expected in the Atlantic this year
Want to be a Canadian? It’s never been easier.
After Trump pauses war, Iranians fly flags of victory, not surrender
Climate, Health & Science

Emperor penguins have been declared endangered
EPA scales back oversight on how toxic coal waste is stored
Here’s how the wildlife trade is fueling disease outbreaks across the globe
A tiny experiment using Artemis II astronaut cells could reshape medicine
EPA chief praises group for opposing government action on climate change
D.C., Md. & Va.

Maryland utility reduces fluoride in water, citing Middle East conflict
Does patience pay off when buying a home? It depends.
Workers charged in patient’s 2020 death at D.C. psychiatric hospital
Buyers are entering housing market later in life
CWG Live: Warm 70s return today. Turning hot next week.
Sports

DOJ investigates NFL’s broadcast deals amid fan complaints
Athletics beat Yankees 1-0 to clinch their first Yankee Stadium series since 2016
Xander Bogaerts hits a walk-off grand slam in the 12th as Padres top Rockies 7-3
LeBron James has 26 points, 11 assists to lead Lakers past Warriors 119-103 as Stephen Curry sits
Jayson Tatum makes a strong return to Madison Square Garden, site of his injury in the playoffs
Featured Videos
 
Watch All
PreviousNext

Melania Trump denies Epstein ties, calls for victims hearing

  1:59

'Granborghini offers supercar rides to elders

  1:19

Rep. Seth Moulton picks: Josh Shapiro or Gavin Newsrom?

  1:00

Astronauts’ favorite wake-up songs include ‘Pink Pony Club'

  0:50

Chef Tan serves Chinese dishes you can't find in D.C.

  1:03

Rat who detected over 100 land mines honored with statue

  0:33

Gaza woman crochets dolls so kids can have toys again

  0:53

Bird watchers in NYC flock to see migrating woodcocks

  0:54

A blind Lego enthusiast is making sets more accessible

  0:40

We tried to get into Berlin’s most famous nightclubs

  1:45

Advice

ColumnCarolyn Hax
Carolyn Hax: Husband’s abandoned Hollywood dreams come back to haunt his family
R. Eric Thomas
Asking Eric: Flaky stepdaughter disrespects home
Sahaj Kaur Kohli
Ask Sahaj: My husband wants me to forget all about his emotional affair
Judith Martin, Nicholas Martin and Jacobina Martin
Miss Manners: Party crashers at my 8-year-old’s birthday
Live Chats

Need advice? Join columnist Carolyn Hax’s weekly chat (April 10 | 12 p.m. ET)
3 hours from now
Dining chat: How do restaurants decide which unlucky diner gets stuck next to the bathrooms?
OpinionDavid Ignatius
Can Trump end the war in Iran and save face? I answered your questions.
Carolyn Hax chat: Is a dream job worth moving near my toxic mom?
Cooking chat: How do I make thick chocolate chip cookies that don’t spread?
Style

ColumnMonica Hesse
In ‘The Drama,’ the no-spoilers twist is a dirty trick
‘Ketamine Queen’ sentenced to 15 years over Matthew Perry’s death
ColumnPhilip Kennicott
Why Artemis II can’t reconnect us to the wonder of the Space Age
At Easter egg roll, Trump tells the children about the war
Arts & Entertainment

5 fantastical costumes from drag star Sasha Velour’s new show
The 36 best things to do in D.C. this weekend and next week
London music festival canceled after Britain bans headliner Kanye West
How a twangy country ballad captivated the nation
Travel

We asked: Can a crying baby get you kicked off a flight?
7 walkable cities where you don’t need a car to have a great vacation
Pants are optional: What I learned navigating Berlin’s famous club scene
Will ‘sky couches’ make economy less miserable?
Food

ColumnElazar Sontag
Philadelphia’s dining scene is better than ever. Here’s where to eat.
Gen Z men are eating ‘boy kibble.’ These ground-beef recipes are a step up.
How one pantry ingredient can transform a soup into a filling meal
ColumnEmily Saladino
Aldi’s wine selection is surprisingly good. Here are 6 bargain bottles to try.
Recipes
What do you want to cook today?
Find a recipe
Search
PreviousNext

Sheet Pan Gnocchi With Leeks, Cherry Tomatoes and Gouda
45 mins Main★ 3.8 (82)

Dill and Pickle Egg Salad Sandwich
30 mins Main★ 3.9 (24)

Lentil Skillet With Spinach, Tomato, Egg and Feta
1 hour Main★ 3.7 (105)

Rye Chocolate Chip Cookies
1 hour 50 mins Dessert★ 3.5 (49)

Spring Cobb Salad With Scallion Dressing
50 mins Salad★ 3.6 (43)
Smoked Tofu, Apple and Gouda Sandwich
10 mins Main★ 3.9 (71)
Pasta Primavera
45 mins Main★ 3.9 (97)
Spring Onion and Halloumi Kebabs With Romesco
1 hour Main★ 4.4 (10)
Flatbreads With Za'atar
Snack★ 3.6 (31)
Key Lime Pie
25 mins Dessert★ 3.9 (82)
Diversions
Comics
Crosswords
Keyword
Wridges
Quiz
Mah Jongg
Sudoku
Horoscopes
Solitaire
Company
About The Post
Newsroom Policies & Standards
WP Creative Group
Diversity & Inclusion
Careers
Media & Community Relations
Accessibility Statement
Sections
Trending
Politics
Elections
Opinions
National
World
Style
Sports
Business
Climate
Well+Being
D.C., Md., & Va.
Obituaries
Weather
Arts & Entertainment
Recipes
Get The Post
WP Intelligence
Enterprise Subscriptions
Manage Your Subscription
Gift Subscriptions
Newsletters & Alerts
Washington Post Live
Reprints & Permissions
Post Store
Books & E-Books
Print Special Editions Store
Print Archives (Subscribers Only)
Today’s Paper
Public Notices
Contact Us
Contact the Newsroom
Contact Customer Care
Contact the Opinions Team
Advertise
Licensing & Syndication
Request a Correction
Send a News Tip
Report a Vulnerability
Terms of Use
Digital Products Terms of Sale
Print Products Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Cookie Settings
Submissions & Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Sitemap
Ad Choices
Your Privacy ChoicesCalifornia Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon