
Christian Piatt

English Edition
Print Edition
Video
Audio
Latest Headlines
Puzzles
More
World
Business
U.S.
Politics
Economy
Tech
Markets & Finance
Opinion
Free Expression
Arts
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Personal Finance
Health
Style
Sports
The Wall Street Journal
Christian Piatt
World
Business
U.S.
Politics
Economy
Tech
Markets & Finance
Opinion
Free Expression
Arts
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Personal Finance
Health
Style
Sports

Advertisement


Top Stories
Trump Says Iran Talks Are On, Sparking Push to Bridge Gaping Divides
The president warned Iran of further attacks if it fails to agree on a deal to end the war.

417

live
U.S. Seizes Iranian Ship, First Use of Force to Hold Blockade
Oil prices jumped following renewed tensions over shipping in the Strait of Hormuz.

Removing Iran’s Enriched Uranium Would Be Difficult—But It Has Been Done Before

EXCLUSIVE
U.A.E. Asks U.S. About a Wartime Financial Lifeline
Emirati officials have spoken with Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent about accessing dollars if the Middle East conflict drags on.

115

11 min ago

Hegseth’s Feud With Army Secretary Spills Into Public View
The spat comes as the U.S. military faces unprecedented commitments around the world.

10

49 min ago

In Fed Fight, Trump Faces the Senator With Nothing to Lose
A Senate committee is weighing Trump’s choice for the next Federal Reserve chair this week, but someone is blocking his confirmation: North Carolina Sen. Thom Tillis.

169

EXCLUSIVE
Eli Lilly Nears Deal for Cancer Biotech
Deal for Kelonia Therapeutics could come as soon as Monday.

1

Inside the ‘Financial Infidelities’ That Tear Marriages Apart
THE COST OF DIVORCE

Inside the ‘Financial Infidelities’ That Tear Marriages Apart
It has never been easier to conceal unsavory spending from a spouse. Divorce—and significant financial damage—can follow.

Wealth-Tax Fever Is Spreading to Less-Wealthy States
Wealth-Tax Fever Is Spreading to Less-Wealthy States
Small-market Maine becomes the latest state to try to raise revenue by hiking income taxes on its highest-earning residents.

1,051

The CEO Preaching Straight Talk About AI and Job Losses
The CEO Preaching Straight Talk About AI and Job Losses
Verizon’s Dan Schulman is all in on AI. But he warns that it is time for business leaders to acknowledge its disruptive potential.

97

Eight Children Killed in Louisiana Shooting
The gunman, who fled in a vehicle he carjacked, died in a police chase, authorities said.

208

Blue Origin Rocket Stumbles on First Commercial Mission
Jeff Bezos’ rocket company said a satellite from customer AST SpaceMobile was deployed into an incorrect orbit.

28

Podcasts

View All

Take On the Week
Why This Economist Says Immigration Crackdown is Reshaping U.S. Job Growth
Wendy Edelberg, nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, discusses why jobs numbers have been so volatile, and why the Fed may need to rethink its calculus on interest rates.Read Transcript


Subscribe
How Well Do You Know Your 401(k)s, 529s and HSAs? Take Our Quiz
How Well Do You Know Your 401(k)s, 529s and HSAs? Take Our Quiz
14

The Seaside Town Trying to Reclaim Its Title as ‘Submarine Capital of the World’
The Seaside Town Trying to Reclaim Its Title as ‘Submarine Capital of the World’
227

The ‘Devil Wears Prada’ Sequel: When Satire Turns Into a Sales Pitch
The ‘Devil Wears Prada’ Sequel: When Satire Turns Into a Sales Pitch
53


More on the Middle East
Behind Trump’s Public Bravado on the War, He Grapples With His Own Fears
Behind Trump’s Public Bravado on the War, He Grapples With His Own Fears
The president’s impulsive style has never been tested in a sustained military conflict, and he’s been ruminating on Jimmy Carter’s failure in Iran.

3,809

The Navy Sends in the Robots to Clear Hormuz of Mines

Retirement
What It’s Like to Retire in Ecuador
What It’s Like to Retire in Ecuador
Some minor inconveniences aside, Cuenca let me quit the career grind years earlier than I could have most anywhere else.

43

4 Financial Scams Targeting Seniors to Watch For
Swindlers have stepped up their game with artificial intelligence and deepfakes to steal older Americans’ money and personal information.

74

Business & Finance
View All

The Record Stock Market Rests on Some Big One-Offs
James Mackintosh | Streetwise

The Record Stock Market Rests on Some Big One-Offs
There are two significant reasons earnings expectations have soared—and they are both probably temporary.

171

Private Credit Is on the Hunt for Credit-Card Debt


Deere Settled for $99 Million Over Repair Costs. Farmers Are Still Worried.
Farmers are waging a legal battle against what they say is Deere’s tight grip over repairs and the escalating costs of fixing complex equipment.

25

Heard on the Street

Intel Is Making Progress. But It Isn’t Out of the Woods Yet.
A shift in the AI market helps the chip maker, but the stock has already tripled while Intel’s turnaround is far from done.

43

See the Story
Sorry, Gen X. We Looked at the Data, and You Had It Rough Too.
In Charts

Sorry, Gen X. We Looked at the Data, and You Had It Rough Too.
But a generation that weathered the housing crash and the rise of student loans still amassed significant wealth.

370

Did Millennials or Boomers Have It Harder? We Went Searching for the Answer

Silicon Valley
Fear and Loathing Among the Haves and Have Mores in San Francisco
TIM HIGGINS

Fear and Loathing Among the Haves and Have Mores in San Francisco
The gold-rush city’s vibe has turned angry as the AI boom creates a new K-shaped economy.

384

The Must-Have Item in Silicon Valley Is a $178 Sweater With a CEO’s Face
Leaders at companies from Nvidia to Palantir are now driving fashion, signaling a new era of the cult of the founder.

38

USA250
View All

The Radical Cancer Science That Saved My Life
USA250

The Radical Cancer Science That Saved My Life
The research on bone-marrow transplantation mirrors the arc of many medical advancements. I was one of the early beneficiaries.

5

Sports
View All

The Obsessive Race to Make a Four-Ounce Running Shoe
The Obsessive Race to Make a Four-Ounce Running Shoe
Gas-injected foams and paper-thin uppers make high-tech shoes lighter than ever before—and records are tumbling just as fast.

24

You Thought World Cup Tickets Were Expensive. Wait Until You Take the Train.
After NJ Transit announced this week that tickets between Manhattan and MetLife Stadium would cost $150 during the tournament, a fight has broken out between the state and soccer’s world governing body.

243

WSJ | Buy Side
View All

Reviews and recommendations, independent of The Wall Street Journal newsroom.

Best Business Debt Consolidation Loans in April 2026
Best Business Debt Consolidation Loans in April 2026
Business debt consolidation can improve your cash flow and repackage your obligations to potentially save you money.

Car Insurance Deductible: How It Works and How to Choose the Right Amount
Car Insurance Deductible: How It Works and How to Choose the Right Amount
A high deductible means lower premiums but it’s not right for everyone.

The Best Everyday Sunscreens, According to Dermatologists
These doctor-recommended SPFs will keep your face protected from the sun's harmful rays. They might help improve your skin’s appearance, too.

Videos
View All

Checkbox
Embed code copied to clipboard
Copy LinkCopy Link
Copy EmbedCopy Embed
Share on FacebookFacebook
Share on TwitterTwitter

0:14ADVERTISEMENT
Click for Sound

What the U.S.-Iran Conflict Reveals About China's Diplomacy
3:27
What the U.S.-Iran Conflict Reveals About China's Diplomacy


 Inside the Cocaine Corridors Fueling Colombia’s Latest War 
16:36
Inside the Cocaine Corridors Fueling Colombia’s Latest War


How Live Nation Became the Most Powerful Company in the Concert Business
9:56
How Live Nation Became the Most Powerful Company in the Concert Business

Economy

America Is in the Middle of a Stealth Manufacturing Boom
The Week New York City’s Affordability Crisis Came to Park Avenue’s Doorstep
Skimp on Yogurt, Splurge on Skydiving: The Rise of the Frugal Rich
Real Estate

A $150,000 Living Room in Denver Trades Neutrals for Nostalgia
Trump Organization to Partner on New Skyscraper in Tbilisi, Georgia
Adam Hayes, Jon Rahm’s Longtime Caddie, Asks $13.995 Million for N.C. Home
Sports

LIV Golf Stars Have No Idea What’s Next
The Ivy League Math Grad Who Hacked Spanish Soccer
San Diego Padres Nearing Deal to be Sold for an MLB-Record $3.9 Billion

CMO

Protein Is Hotter Than Ever. So Why Is the Owner of Quest and Atkins on a Cold Streak?
NBCUniversal Says Nielsen Devalues Media Companies With Inaccurate Metrics
Your Rummikub Group Has a Sponsor. It Also Has a Brand Strategy.
CIO

Why Some Companies Say AI ‘Tokenmaxxing’ Is Key to Survival
Why Tubi Is Betting on AI to Win Over Gen Z Viewers
Meet the Startup That Used AI and OpenClaw to Automate Its Own Developers
CFO

Companies Would Need to Disclose Stablecoin Holdings Under FASB Proposal
In This Critical Part of Audits, the Accountant’s Role Is Shrinking Fast
Oracle Names Hilary Maxson Chief Financial Officer
Risk & Compliance

Anthropic CEO Meets Trump Administration Officials as Feud Thaws
Justice Department Nears Filing Antitrust Case Against Egg Producers
U.S. to Create High-Tech Manufacturing Zone in Philippines

Logistics Report

What We Know—and Don’t Know—About the Tariff-Refund Process
UPS Seeks to Replace Manual Scans With Tracking Tech
Trump Administration Pushes Biggest Noncombat Ship Upgrade in Decades
Sustainable Business

Carbon-Capture Hub Gets Lifeline From Trump Administration
Swedish Green Steel Startup Stegra Gets $1.65 Billion Funding to Complete New Plant
More BP Investors Demand Proof That Fossil-Fuel Pivot Will Benefit Shareholders
Heard on the Street

A UnitedHealth Reckoning Still Looms
Wall Street Is Spending Its Big Windfall on Wall Street
Luxury Stocks Are Suddenly on Flash Sale
Barron’s

QXO Strikes Another Deal on Path to Be Second-Biggest Building Products Distributor
Stock Futures Are Falling and Oil Jumps Higher Ahead of New Iran Talks
Tesla, Intel, Boeing, Capital One, and Many More Stocks to Watch This Week
MarketWatch

I’m planning to retire at 60. Should I sell my house and invest the $500,000?
‘I have full guardianship’: My son has special needs. If I buy him a condo, will that hurt his benefits?
U.S. stock futures tumble, oil surges as this weekend’s Iran developments rekindle uncertainty
Mansion Global
Independent of The Wall Street Journal newsroom.

Pete Davidson and Jamie McMurray: This Week in Celebrity Homes
A Modernist Mansion Asking $22.5 Million Stands out Among Rows of Victorians in San Francisco
A California Villa With Exotic Animals, a Dream Garage in Fort Lauderdale and More
Investor’s Business Daily

Dow Jones Futures Fall, Oil Prices Jump; Trump Announces New Iran Talks With Hormuz Shut
Google, Marvell In AI Chip Talks As Nvidia Competition Heats Up
Tesla Robotaxi Service Expands To Dalla