2026_04_07_geminilinkedin
Updated 7 hours ago

New features aim to support Gemini users in 'crisis'
Share
Edited by Rachel Kleinman, Editor at LinkedIn News 
Google on Tuesday announced plans to add mental health support features to its Gemini chatbot. Users deemed to be in distress will be directed to a support hotline, and those who wish to discuss issues related to mental health will be able to access a "help is available" module, the company said. Additionally, the tech giant vowed to donate $30 million to crisis support services globally. The news comes as chatbot makers, including Google and OpenAI, face lawsuits alleging harm caused by their AI-powered tools.

…
see more
Top perspectives
Storyline feed updates
View Debbie W.’s  graphic link
Debbie W.Debbie W.
  • 3rd+Influencer • 3rd+
President of Google in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Helping people across EMEA achieve their ambitions, big and small, through high impact technology.President of Google in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Helping people across EMEA achieve their ambitions, big and small, through high impact technology.
13h •  13 hours ago • Visible to anyone on or off LinkedIn

Follow

In a mental health crisis, technology must be more than functional – it must be intentional.

At Google, we are focusing on how AI can act as a bridge to real-world care. Our latest updates to Gemini are the result of deep collaboration with clinical and safety experts.

Here is how we are building that bridge:

💡”𝗢𝗻𝗲-𝘁𝗼𝘂𝗰𝗵” 𝗰𝗿𝗶𝘀𝗶𝘀 𝘀𝘂𝗽𝗽𝗼𝗿𝘁: A redesigned "one-touch" interface on Gemini that immediately connects users to support organisations when they need help 

💡𝗦𝗰𝗮𝗹𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝘀𝘂𝗽𝗽𝗼𝗿𝘁: We are delivering $30M in Google.org funding to help global mental health hotlines scale their capacity

💡𝗣𝗿𝗼𝘁𝗲𝗰𝘁𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝘆𝗼𝘂𝗻𝗴 𝗽𝗲𝗼𝗽𝗹𝗲: We've built specific protections for minors, designed to provide the most helpful responses and avoid harmful topics when using Gemini

💡𝗥𝗶𝗴𝗼𝗿𝗼𝘂𝘀 𝘀𝘁𝗮𝗻𝗱𝗮𝗿𝗱𝘀: Our teams train Gemini to prioritize safety and provide responsible, clinically-grounded information

Our goal is to better connect people with the right information, resources, and human support at the right time.

Hear from the experts: Laurie Richardson and Megan Jones Bell explain more on our approach. 

Check out our blog post in the comments, or watch the video below 👇

Play
Remaining time 
1:07
1x

Playback speed

Turn closed captions on

Unmute

Turn fullscreen on
likelovecelebrate
88
28 comments
8 reposts

Like

Comment

Repost

Send
View Caroline Hyde’s  graphic link
Caroline HydeCaroline Hyde
  • 3rd+Influencer • 3rd+
Anchor on Bloomberg TVAnchor on Bloomberg TV
View my newsletter
5h •  5 hours ago • Visible to anyone on or off LinkedIn

Follow

Google announced new mental health tools in Gemini to get you human help when you need it. 

The chatbot will prompt you to access a hotline if it recognizes a “potential crisis related to suicide or self-harm” in just one touch. 

Gemini has been trained to recognize when “a conversation might signal that a person may be in an acute mental health situation” as well as not to “reinforce false beliefs.” 

The aim is to provide better responses to encourage users to seek human help. 

No detail of how this was done, but that focus has come from clinical, engineering and safety teams.

And that focus follows a number of accusations and lawsuits for AI companies such as Google that their tools have led to harm - in some terrible cases, suicide or murder. 

Look, we know these productivity tools have become personal tools. Many of us are using AI chatbots for career, health or relationship advice. For many this is hugely useful, for a few vulnerable people this is hugely damaging. It’s the same story we’ve seen for social media - self or forced regulation often lags the pace of innovation. 

AI companies have become ever more aware of this potential damage and are trying to make changes as the demands from consumers and regulators grow for more protection. 

It’s notable that more human help is part of Google’s answer…and the company is donating $30M to build out global hotlines to meet the need…perhaps ironically using AI to help them scale and train staff and volunteers. 

Lmk what you think of Google’s steps to protect users. 
✌️❤️
hashtag#tech hashtag#ai hashtag#safety hashtag#google hashtag#gemini

Play
Remaining time 
1:14
1x

Playback speed

Turn closed captions on

Unmute

Turn fullscreen on
likeinsightfullove
39
4 reposts

Like

Comment

Repost

Send
View Norman Paulsen’s  graphic link
Norman PaulsenNorman Paulsen
   • 3rd+Premium • 3rd+
Published AI/LLM Researcher & Architect | Delivering Value from AI, Digital Transformation, Service Improvement | AI & Data BackgroundPublished AI/LLM Researcher & Architect | Delivering Value from AI, Digital Transformation, Service Improvement | AI & Data Background
11h •  11 hours ago • Visible to anyone on or off LinkedIn

Follow

Google just dropped an update on Gemini AI and mental health: adding in better user protections and connection to real world resources. 

From Google's release, there were three notable changes: 

Prioritizing safety and human connection: connecting users with real-world resources and human support.

Designing better responses: responses to encourage help-seeking while avoiding validation of harmful behaviors like urges to self-harm.

Avoiding confirming false beliefs: trained Gemini not to agree with or reinforce false beliefs, and instead gently distinguish subjective experience from objective fact.

This last one is an interesting shift as it expands beyond mental health. While placating to users and their fringe ideas has led to AI Psychosis, it also leads to people further reinforcing political and ideological extremes. 

Before AI, we already lived in an increasingly polarized world. Now with AI, it's hard to believe anything you see online and we can validate any of our own thoughts against a chat bot. This seems to be leading to further polarization not grounded in any facts. 

But then the question becomes, who decides what's fact and what's not? 

hashtag#LLM hashtag#AI hashtag#Google hashtag#Gemini hashtag#AIPsychosis

Pause
Remaining time 
0:05
1x

Playback speed

Unmute

Turn fullscreen on
likecelebratesupport
155
5 comments
2 reposts

Like

Comment

Repost

Send
View Antonio C’s  graphic link
Antonio CAntonio C
 • 3rd+3rd+
Strategic Project pro. with an Agile Mindset 🔹Supply Chain 🔹 FMCG 🔹 FOOD 🔹 Energy 🔹MiningStrategic Project pro. with an Agile Mindset 🔹Supply Chain 🔹 FMCG 🔹 FOOD 🔹 Energy 🔹Mining
11h •  11 hours ago • Visible to anyone on or off LinkedIn

Gemini will add an interface directing chatbot users to a support hotline when the conversation indicates “a potential crisis related to suicide or self-harm,” Google said in a blog post on Tuesday. Additionally, the company is adding a “help is available” module for chats about mental health and design tweaks to discourage self-harm.
In some instances, chatbot users have said that AI tools convinced them to act on clear falsehoods. In the Tuesday blog post, Google said it has trained Gemini “not to agree with or reinforce false believes, and instead gently distinguish subjective experience from objective fact.” The company didn’t provide further details on this process.
In the past, Google has made similar adjustments to its popular services after facing scrutiny, adding information from health institutions and professionals to its search engine and YouTube.
hashtag#ai hashtag#mentalhealth hashtag#businessrisk 
https://lnkd.in/g9r7JXNm

Google Adds Mental Health Tools to Gemini Chatbot After Lawsuit
bloomberg.com
like
6
1 comment
1 repost

Like

Comment

Repost

Send
LinkedIn News

Top stories
Anthropic partners with tech giants for unreleased AI model
58m ago • 20,889 readers
Bill Ackman pitches Universal Music Group takeover
2h ago • 17,601 readers
IMF chief on war: 'All roads lead to higher prices'
2h ago • 11,542 readers
Intel joins Musk's massive Terafab chipmaking project
2h ago • 8,996 readers
Sony Pictures to cut hundreds in 'strategic' layoffs
2h ago • 2,741 readers
Apple slides on concern about foldable iPhone delays
2h ago • 1,229 readers
Gilead to acquire biotech firm Tubulis for up to $5B
7h ago • 24,521 readers
Ford recalls over 420K vehicles due to wiper arm issues
5h ago • 18,987 readers
New features aim to support Gemini users in 'crisis'
7h ago • 2,102 readers
Delta, Southwest raise bag fees amid rising fuel costs
51m ago • 682 readers

Show less

About
Accessibility
Help Center

Privacy & Terms
Ad Choices
Advertising

Business Services
Get the LinkedIn app
More
