World
Europe
War in Ukraine
2024 European elections
European Union
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Turkey
Russia
The M International newsletter brings you the best of M Le magazine du Monde, in English


News
Vance hails Orban as 'model' for Europe during pre-election visit to Hungary
At a rally with Viktor Orban in an indoor sports arena, the US vice president told thousands of cheering listeners that he and Donald Trump stood 'shoulder to shoulder' with the Hungarian leader.

Published yesterday at 5:50 pm (Paris), updated yesterday at 8:11 pm Le Monde with AFP

News
UK bans Kanye West from visiting country due to antisemitic rants
The American rapper had submitted an application to travel to Britain on Monday to headline the Wireless Festival, but it was refused on the grounds that his presence would not be conducive to the public good, the BBC cited the Home Office as saying.

Published yesterday at 5:23 pm (Paris), updated yesterday at 5:57 pm Le Monde with AFP

Profile
Subscribers only Viktor Medvedchuk, the Ukrainian traitor Putin wanted to install in place of Zelensky
Captured in April 2022 as he tried to flee Ukraine, the former MP and oligarch now lives in exile in Russia. As a lawyer in Kyiv in 1980, he sent his client, the great Ukrainian poet Vasyl Stus, to his death.

Published yesterday at 5:30 am (Paris), updated yesterday at 9:56 am Ariane Chemin Anna Koriagina

In Depth
Subscribers only How Russia uses Georgia as a tool to evade sanctions
A Georgian businessman is helping Moscow illegally sell raw materials seized from Ukraine. The Russian occupation authorities are celebrating having opened a breach in international sanctions, while Tbilisi remains silent.

Published yesterday at 4:21 am (Paris), updated yesterday at 9:55 am Emmanuel Grynszpan

In Depth
Subscribers only A wave of dissent sweeps through Servant of the People, Zelensky's party
As Ukraine prepares to pass a series of laws in order to secure international funding, the president appears to have lost some of his influence over his parliamentary majority. His loyal supporters are trying to keep his party cohesive, as it's deeply connected to his rise to power.

Published on April 6, 2026, at 8:00 pm (Paris) Thomas d’Istria

In Depth
Subscribers only In Hungary, unease grows over Viktor Orban's crony capitalism
Companies that have thrived on public contracts since the Fidesz party came to power in 2010 have seen their share prices tumble ahead of the April 12 legislative elections, as polls indicate that opposition candidate Péter Magyar could win.

Published on April 6, 2026, at 7:06 pm (Paris) Jean-Baptiste Chastand

News
Greek PM calls for launch of fraud proceedings in EU agricultural subsidies case
European Union prosecutors are probing 'numerous' members of the Greek ruling party for fraud claims worth at least €23 million.

Published on April 6, 2026, at 12:12 pm (Paris), updated on April 6, 2026, at 12:47 pm Le Monde with AFP

Long Read
Subscribers only On immigration, Spain moves against the tide of its European neighbors
Citing economic and moral arguments, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez's Socialist government is preparing to grant legal status to 500,000 undocumented workers, most from Latin America. The plan brings hope to the 840,000 foreign nationals living without papers in Spain.

Published on April 6, 2026, at 5:00 am (Paris) Julia Pascual César Dezfuli

Column
Subscribers only Sociologist Dominique Méda on the 'lessons of Lionel Jospin and Jürgen Habermas'
As the race for the 2027 French presidential election gets underway, the former prime minister, a champion of solemnity in politics, and the German philosopher, a leading thinker on democratic Europe, should serve as sources of inspiration, writes the researcher in her column.

Published on April 6, 2026, at 2:59 am (Paris), updated on April 6, 2026, at 10:36 am Dominique Méda

News
Pope Leo urges 'those who have the power to unleash wars' to 'choose peace'
In his first Easter blessing as pontiff, the pope also spoke of 'a world ravaged by wars and marked by a hatred and indifference that make us feel powerless in the face of evil.'

Published on April 5, 2026, at 3:09 pm (Paris) Le Monde with AFP

11:30
Video investigation
Subscribers only European company sells planes to Myanmar junta despite sanctions
An investigation by Le Monde and the Centre for Information Resilience has uncovered the deliveries of four aircraft from a Czech company to the military dictatorship, despite an EU ban on the export of weapons and goods that could be used for military purposes.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 12:00 pm (Paris) Liselotte Mas, Myanmar Witness, Gabriel Lecointre, Elisa Bellanger and Sinead McCausland

News
Subscribers only Photographer Francesca Allen celebrates the power of long hair in Lithuania
In 2024, British photographer Francesca Allen traveled to Kaunas, Lithuania, to attend an annual competition honoring the country's longest hair, a symbol of female power. This age-old tradition is carried on by girls and women of all ages. A beautiful book, co-published by Steidl and the fashion house Chloé, pays tribute to her work.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 12:48 am (Paris) Emmanuelle Lequeux

News
During Pope Leo XIV's first Easter vigil, a call for harmony and peace in a war-torn world
The pope called on the faithful to make a commitment to bring peace and harmony 'everywhere and always throughout the world.' Amid the US-Israeli war on Iran and Russia's ongoing campaign in Ukraine, Leo has repeatedly called for a halt in hostilities.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 12:17 am (Paris), updated on April 5, 2026, at 9:15 am Le Monde with AP

News
Subscribers only Russian 'ghost fleet' tanker drifts alarmingly in the Mediterranean
The Arctic-Metagaz, a sanctioned vessel carrying liquefied natural gas, has been drifting dangerously since Libyan authorities failed to tow it to safety.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 6:00 pm (Paris) Simon Roger Julien Bouissou Emmanuel Grynszpan

News
Ex-matador gored to death by bull at Spanish arena ahead of bullfight
Ricardo Ortiz, 51, was unloading bulls into an arena in Malaga when one of them gored him. He was helping prepare for a traditional bullfight scheduled for Easter weekend.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 1:20 pm (Paris) Le Monde with AFP

News
Russia strikes market in Ukraine, at least five killed and 25 injured
A Russian drone hit a covered market in the eastern Ukrainian city of Nikopol, officials said.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 1:00 pm (Paris), updated on April 4, 2026, at 7:39 pm Le Monde with AFP

Feature
Subscribers only Pre-election Hungary's mood is one of twilight for Orban's rule
After 16 years of unchallenged rule, Hungary's ultra-conservative prime minister is, for the first time, seeing his supremacy challenged. With days until the April 12 legislative elections, pro-European challenger Peter Magyar is leading in the polls. In the ruling party's eastern strongholds, huge Chinese battery factories have sparked public backlash.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 11:00 am (Paris) Jean-Baptiste Chastand

News analysis
Subscribers only Pedro Sanchez: Strong on the world stage, vulnerable at home
The Spanish prime minister commands international stature, notably due to his opposition to the war in Iran. But this recognition abroad hides the fragility of his political base in Madrid.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 12:38 am (Paris), updated on April 5, 2026, at 5:36 pm Isabelle Piquer

News
Greece names new ministers after EU farm scandal-linked resignations
As part of an investigation into the misappropriation of EU agriculture subsidies, the European Public Prosecutor's Office asked Greece to lift parliamentary immunity for three ministers who had stepped down, as well as for eight other MPs.

Published on April 3, 2026, at 2:37 pm (Paris), updated on April 3, 2026, at 2:50 pm Le Monde with AFP

Letter from...
Subscribers only Espionage suspicions and tense exchanges: Brussels on edge ahead of Hungary elections
The release of a phone conversation between a journalist and a spokesperson for the European Commission has fueled mistrust toward Budapest, whose positions closely align with the Kremlin.

Published on April 3, 2026, at 2:16 pm (Paris) Philippe Jacqué
See more

Sections
World
French politics
France
Les Décodeurs
Sports
Environment
Science
Campus
Le Monde Africa
Pixels
Health
Obituaries
Archives
About Us
Le Monde Syndication
Le Monde for hotels
French Focus
Rugby World Cup 2023
Tour de France 2023
Paris Olympics 2024
Emmanuel Macron
Opinion
Editorials
Columns
Analysis
Subscription

Sign up 
Sign In
