The Next Target for the U.S. and Israel Is Iran’s Economy
The two allies have been steadily stepping up attacks on Iranian infrastructure and are planning to hit energy facilities



1869

Gift unlocked article

Listen

(7 min)


Video released on social media on Saturday shows smoke rising over a plant in Iran’s Mahshahr petrochemical zone after a reported Israeli airstrike. Reuters
By 
Dov Lieber
Follow
 and Zvi Smith
Updated April 6, 2026 9:05 am ET

TEL AVIV—The U.S. and Israel have a set of targets lined up in Iran designed to cripple the country’s economy and ensure the regime’s recovery from this war is long and painful.

Israel is awaiting authorization from Washington this week to begin striking Iran’s energy facilities, an Israeli official said, potentially undermining output in one of the world’s major oil-and-gas producers. In a Wall Street Journal interview, President Trump said Sunday the U.S. was prepared to hit all of Iran’s bridges and power plants, creating enough damage that it would “take 20 years to rebuild, if they’re lucky, if they have a country.”

Striking the underpinnings of Iran’s economy would mark an escalation in the five-week-long war that is aimed at forcing Tehran to give up the economic leverage it has gained by slowing traffic through the Strait of Hormuz—the waterway through which 20% of the world’s oil flows. Trump has set a deadline of Tuesday evening for the strait to be opened.

A billboard in Tehran depicting soldiers catching American military equipment in a net with the text ‘The Strait of Hormuz remains closed.’
A billboard in Tehran depicts soldiers trapping U.S. military equipment in a net. AFP/Getty Images
Israel and the U.S. have already begun stepping up attacks on nonenergy targets in recent days, including hitting Iran’s biggest steel and petrochemical factories and a landmark bridge.

“They are signaling, we’re serious, and if you will continue not to agree to end the war, the price you’ll pay to your economy is gonna be higher and higher,” said Avner Golov, a former Israeli national-security official and now vice president at MIND Israel, an advisory group.  

Attacking civilian infrastructure risks violating international law. U.S. and Israeli officials have said they are legitimate targets because they produce material used by Iran’s military.

The shift toward infrastructure targets risks turning the conflict into a war of economic attrition.

The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps vowed it would step up attacks on civilian infrastructure in Israel and the Persian Gulf states should Trump carry out his threats. 

It has already retaliated for attacks on its infrastructure by hitting petrochemical facilities in Bahrain and Abu Dhabi and striking oil, desalination and power infrastructure in Kuwait. On Sunday, Iran hit the Neot Hovav industrial zone in southern Israel, which houses several factories. Days earlier, Israel’s largest oil refinery in Haifa was hit by debris from an Iranian missile but didn’t halt production at the site, Israeli authorities said.  

Advertisement


“Your reckless moves are dragging the United States into a living HELL for every single family, and our whole region is going to burn because you insist on following Netanyahu’s commands,” Iran’s parliamentary speaker, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, wrote in an X post on Sunday after Trump’s threats. 