France
French Politics
Emmanuel Macron
2027 French presidential election
French Education
French Justice
Paris
Newsletter: The best of 'Le Monde' in English in your inbox daily

Most read

1
French high-speed train slams into truck, killing TGV driver
2
French hostages held in Iran 'free and on their way to France,' says Macron
3
The strange foiled attack on Bank of America in Paris: 'He said if the kids pulled off the job, there'd be many more'

News
Sarkozy tells court no Libyan money went into winning 2007 presidential campaign
'The truth is that there wasn't a single cent of Libyan money in my campaign,' former French president Nicolas Sarkozy told the appeal trial. A lower court in September found him guilty of seeking to acquire funding from Muammar Gaddafi's Libya for the campaign.

Published yesterday at 4:18 pm (Paris), updated yesterday at 4:23 pm Le Monde with AFP

News
French hostages held in Iran 'free and on their way to France,' says Macron
'Cécile Kohler and Jacques Paris are free and on their way to France, after three and a half years in detention in Iran,' the French president wrote on X.

Published yesterday at 3:51 pm (Paris), updated yesterday at 8:03 pm Le Monde with AFP

Investigation
Subscribers only The strange foiled attack on Bank of America in Paris: 'He said if the kids pulled off the job, there'd be many more'
Three teenagers and a 21-year-old man were placed in detention as part of the investigation into the attempted bombing of Bank of America's office in Paris. Investigators suspect that Iranian intelligence services were behind the plot.

Published yesterday at 12:30 pm (Paris), updated yesterday at 12:42 pm Jérémie Pham-Lê

News
French high-speed train slams into truck, killing TGV driver
Two people were badly injured, although their lives were not in danger, while 14 others sustained less serious injuries in a collision between the train and a military truck at a crossing between Béthune and Lens in northern France, officials said.

Published yesterday at 10:48 am (Paris), updated yesterday at 5:53 pm Le Monde with AFP

Column
Subscribers only 'Can Le Pen and Bardella accept betraying a portion of their own voters to get elected?'
The leaders of the far-right Rassemblement National have been contradicting each other openly and frequently. Their opportunistic strategy contains the seeds of betrayal against a significant portion of their own electorate, writes Le Monde's columnist Françoise Fressoz.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 6:00 pm (Paris) Françoise Fressoz

Long Read
Subscribers only Looking for Cécile, a 'bad girl' in France's sinister former 'preservation schools'
Until the mid-20th century, correctional facilities run by the French prison administration held minors accused of theft or 'debauchery' in appalling conditions. Upon his retirement, Michel Bey discovered that his mother, Cécile, who died when he was 5, was one of them.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 1:00 pm (Paris) Dominique Perrin

News
Subscribers only Thousands gather in Paris suburb to protest racism and support new mayor
'Resistance! Resistance!' chanted the dense and diverse crowd on Saturday in front of the town hall of the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis, echoing the words of the new mayor, Bally Bagayoko.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 11:24 am (Paris) Louise Couvelaire

News
Subscribers only China's execution of a Frenchman convicted of drug trafficking casts a chill on relations with Paris
Chan Thao Phoumy was sentenced in 2010 after authorities dismantled a methamphetamine trafficking network. France has condemned the fact that his defense was not allowed to attend his final court hearing.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 11:07 am (Paris) Harold Thibault

News analysis
Subscribers only The rise of Evangelicals is transforming French Protestantism
Traditionally discreet and generally liberal on moral issues, French Protestantism is being shaken by the dynamism of the Evangelical movement and its younger, more conservative members, who are more open about their faith in the public sphere.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 8:00 am (Paris) Sarah Belouezzane

Investigation
Subscribers only How Morocco is renewing its influence networks in France
Some of Morocco's traditional networks of influence in France have been put on hold in recent years. How they might be restructured remains uncertain, while new voices have struggled to replace high-profile figures.

Published on April 5, 2026, at 5:30 am (Paris) Alexandre Aublanc

News
Thousands rally against racism in Paris suburb to defend mayor
Bally Bagayoko, the mayor of Saint-Denis, called for the demonstration after being subjected to racist insults following his election.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 5:52 pm (Paris) Le Monde with AFP

News
French jury upholds jail terms for three rugby players over gang rape
Irishman Denis Coulson and Frenchman Loïck Jammes were sentenced to 14 years behind bars, and New Zealander Rory Grice to 12. Their lawyers said they would appeal to the highest court.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 4:34 pm (Paris) Le Monde with AFP

In Depth
Subscribers only French anti-racist activists rally, hoping to uplift fragmented movement
Many organizations have answered the call to march issued by Bally Bagayoko, mayor of the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis, who faced racist abuse after his election.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 2:58 pm (Paris), updated on April 4, 2026, at 3:59 pm Louise Couvelaire

News
French-Palestinian MEP Rima Hassan denounces 'judicial harassment' as court case looms over social media post
Rima Hassan will be tried over allegedly 'promoting terrorism' over an X post referring to a Japanese man who carried out a terror attack in Israel in 1972.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 5:57 am (Paris), updated on April 4, 2026, at 8:38 am Le Monde with AFP

Profile
Subscribers only New Saint-Denis mayor seeks to turn racist insults against him into 'a foundation for building things'
Bally Bagayoko, the new hard-left mayor of the northern Paris suburb, filed a complaint for 'public insults' of a racist nature on Thursday, after having been targeted by racist insults on the CNews channel since being elected. He has called for a large anti-racist rally to be held in his city on Saturday.

Published on April 4, 2026, at 5:00 am (Paris), updated on April 4, 2026, at 8:53 am Sandrine Cassini

News
Paris's new mayor pledges to prevent sexual violence in schools
Claims of sexual abuse in schools were a central issue in the campaign during last month's Paris mayoral election. Emmanuel Grégoire said that the city had suspended 31 school monitors on suspicion of sexual violence since the beginning of 2026.

Published on April 3, 2026, at 1:53 pm (Paris) Le Monde with AFP

News
Subscribers only 10 years of the Panama Papers: The investigation that brought in €275 million for France
The vast majority of funds recovered by French tax authorities after the massive 2016 data leak, revealed by Le Monde and more than other 100 media outlets working with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, came from investigations into 230 taxpayers, both individuals and legal entities.

Published on April 3, 2026, at 1:52 pm (Paris) Anne Michel

News
Container ship declaring French ownership passes through Strait of Hormuz
The Maltese-flagged Kribi belonging to the French maritime transport group CMA CGM crossed the strait, which has been virtually blocked by Iran since early in the Middle East war. It appears to be the first known transit by a major European shipping group since March 1.

Published on April 3, 2026, at 12:51 pm (Paris) Le Monde with AFP

Interview
Subscribers only Paris Mayor Grégoire unveils plan to tackle sexual violence in after-school programs: 'I want to guarantee complete transparency for families'
Paris's new mayor outlines his measures, including transparency, enhanced training and stricter oversight. Starting in April, a citizens' convention will debate the organization of the school week and day, including the current 4.5-day week for children.

Published on April 3, 2026, at 11:52 am (Paris), updated on April 3, 2026, at 11:56 am Hélène Bekmezian Sylvie Lecherbonnier Violaine Morin

News
French and South Korean presidents say will work together on Strait of Hormuz
On a visit to South Korea, French President Emmanuel Macron told his counterpart Lee Jae Myung that the two countries can play a role in helping to stabilize the situation in the Middle East, including the Strait of Hormuz, according to South Korean media.

Published on April 3, 2026, at 9:35 am (Paris) Le Monde with AP
See more

Sections
World
French politics
France
Les Décodeurs
Sports
Environment
Science
Campus
Le Monde Africa
Pixels
Health
Obituaries
Archives
About Us
Le Monde Syndication
Le Monde for hotels
French Focus
Rugby World Cup 2023
Tour de France 2023
Paris Olympics 2024
Emmanuel Macron
Opinion
Editorials
Columns
Analysis
Subscription

Sign up 
Sign In
Le Monde in English

Sign up to receive our daily selection of "Le Monde"
articles translated into English.
Sign up