2026-04-07-barronsOil Prices Fall Sharply as Trump Announces Two-Week Ceasefire
By 
Anita Hamilton
Follow
 and 
Callum Keown
Follow
Updated April 07, 2026, 7:51 pm EDT / Original April 07, 2026, 5:36 am EDT






Reprints

Gift Article


U.S. President Donald Trump has given Iran until 8 p.m. tonight to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. (Getty Images)
Key Points

About This Summary

President Trump announced a two-week ceasefire in the Iran war, hours after threatening a “whole civilization will die.”

U.S. oil prices fell to $111.20 late Tuesday, after settling up 0.5%; Brent crude sank to $105.81, settling down 0.5%.

Tanker crossings in the Strait of Hormuz peaked at 11 on Saturday, but analysts foresee continued conflict escalation.

U.S. oil prices fell sharply late Tuesday as President Donald Trump announced a two-week ceasefire in the Iran war just hours before his deadline.

A last-ditch effort from Pakistan’s Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif helped avert a broader attack on Iran threatened by Trump.

After the U.S. struck military targets on Kharg Island, which handles 90% of Iran’s oil exports, Trump wrote on Truth Social that a “whole civilization will die tonight, never to be brought back again.”

Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations, Amir Saeid Iravani, told the security council that Iran “will never submit to pressure, coercion or force.” He also called on the U.N. to demand an end to the attacks.

Brent
West Texas Intermediate
2026
April
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
$120
West Texas Intermediate futures for May delivery had settled Tuesday afternoon at $112.95 a barrel, up 0.5%. They were back to trading below $100 Tuesday evening after Trump announced the ceasefire.

On Saturday, the number of crossings of the Strait of Hormuz peaked at 11—the most in a single day since March 1—after Iran began allowing Iraqi vessels to move through the waterway. What’s more there have been no reported physical attacks on ships there since April 1.

“We continue to see the near-term conflict path clearly pointing to escalation, even if the White House announces another extension,” RBC Capital Markets’ Helina Croft wrote Tuesday. “The negotiating gap between Tehran and Washington remains wide.”

Echoing that sentiment, J.P. Morgan analysts wrote Tuesday that Iran “has limited incentive to fully reopen the Strait without a comprehensive ceasefire agreement with the U.S.”

Review & Preview: The Countdown
By 
Megan Leonhardt
Follow
April 07, 2026, 7:50 pm EDT






Reprints

Gift Article

In this article
PSKY
Resetting the Clock. Markets spent the day hyper-focused on President Donald Trump’s 8 p.m. ET deadline for Iran to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, only to have him issue another last-minute extension this evening.

The President kicked off the morning doubling down on his threats against Iran, writing on social media Tuesday morning that the whole Iranian civilization “will die tonight” if Iran didn’t meet U.S. demands.

But hours before the deadline, the prime minister of Islamic Republic of Pakistan Shehbaz Sharif, called for another extension. “Diplomatic efforts for peaceful settlement of the ongoing war in the Middle East are progressing steadily, strongly and powerfully with the potential to lead to substantive results in near future. To allow diplomacy to run its course, I earnestly request President Trump to extend the deadline for two weeks,” he wrote on social media Tuesday afternoon.

Advertisement - Scroll to Continue

About 90 minutes before the deadline, Trump posted that he would agree to another extension. “Based on conversations with Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif and Field Marshal Asim Munir, of Pakistan, and wherein they requested that I hold off the destructive force being sent tonight to Iran, and subject to the Islamic Republic of Iran agreeing to the COMPLETE, IMMEDIATE, and SAFE OPENING of the Strait of Hormuz, I agree to suspend the bombing and attack of Iran for a period of two weeks,” Trump said, adding that the cease fire will apply to both Iran and the U.S.

Trump added that the U.S. had received a 10-point proposal from Iran, that he believes is a “workable basis on which to negotiate.”

Newsletter Sign-up

Review & Preview

Every weekday evening we highlight the consequential market news of the day and explain what's likely to matter tomorrow.


Preview

Subscribe
The tension throughout the day, however, didn’t help stocks. The three major indexes were down for much of the day, though there was a late-breaking rally this afternoon that kept Tuesday’s stock performance well off the lows.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average still closed down 85 points, or 0.2%. But the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite managed to close in positive territory, both up roughly 0.1% on the day.

That was likely led by oil prices. Brent crude briefly spiked to $111 a barrel after the U.S. carried out strikes on Kharg Island. But the international prices fell back down closer to $107 a barrel as markets wound down for the day.

That said, the Brent crude oil forward curve—the shape of which offers insight into how the market is pricing supply and demand expectations over time—is offering some cautionary signs, writes Adam Turnquist, chief technical strategist for LPL Financial.

Advertisement - Scroll to Continue

“The oil market is signaling a higher-for-longer pricing regime,” Turnquist wrote on Tuesday. “While the sharp degree of backwardation points to an immediate supply shock, the upward shift in the forward curve and continued demand for call options on longer-dated contracts suggest a diminishing likelihood that Brent crude prices will return to their pre–Iran war lows near $70 anytime soon.”

Company
Last
Chg
Chg%
Dow Jones Industrial Average
46,584.46
-85.42
-0.18%
S&P 500 Index
6,616.85
5.02
0.08%
NASDAQ Composite Index
22,017.85
21.51
0.10%
Market Data as of 
4/7/2026, 5:15:59 PM

The Hot Stock: Paramount Skydance 
PSKY

+10.66%

 Corp. +10.7%
The Biggest Loser: Axon Enterprise -9.7%

Best Sector: Communication services +1.0%
Worst Sector: Consumer staples -1.8%

April 7
-2.00
-1.75
-1.50
-1.25
-1.00
-0.75
-0.50
-0.25
0
0.25
%
Nasdaq Composite
S&P 500
Dow industrials
Economist Says the Fed Can’t Win on Inflation
The Iran war is set to boost inflation at this point, no matter whether the fighting is resolved immediately or not. But Joseph Stiglitz, a leading economist who is currently a professor at Columbia University and chief economist of the Roosevelt Institute, warns that there’s a strong risk that if it persists, it could spur stagflation—a condition that emerges when there’s weak economic growth, high unemployment, and high inflation.

If, “miraculously,” the Strait of Hormuz reopens soon, the inflationary risk would be muted—but it wouldn’t entirely disappear because prices for crude oil and fertilizer are global prices, Stiglitz recently explained to my colleague Emily Russell.