
	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://help.ft.com/faq/gifting-and-sharing-an-article/what-is-a-gift-article/.
	https://www.ft.com/content/bb8d2108-f17d-4b7c-b9bc-e9c6dcfa34a5?syn-25a6b1a6=1

	The karaoke company, the penny stock investor and the $17bn trucking rout
Controversial trader John Fife invested in Algorhythm months before its AI announcement triggered a surge in its share price and a market panic

© FT montage/Dreamstime
The karaoke company, the penny stock investor and the $17bn trucking rout on x (opens in a new window)
The karaoke company, the penny stock investor and the $17bn trucking rout on facebook (opens in a new window)
The karaoke company, the penny stock investor and the $17bn trucking rout on linkedin (opens in a new window)

Share

Save
current progress 100%
Rachel Rees in London

Published14 HOURS AGO

10
Print this page
Get ahead with daily markets updates.Join the FT's WhatsApp channel

When a tiny karaoke machine seller-turned-logistics firm triggered a $17bn slump in one sector of the US equity market last month, one controversial penny stock investor was sitting pretty.

In mid-February, Algorhythm Holdings — then a roughly $6mn company that months earlier had almost been delisted from Nasdaq for not having enough equity — published a report saying its AI logistics platform had drastically improved efficiency in its Indian freight business.

In a market jittery about AI’s destructive potential, the impact was brutal. Around $17bn was wiped off big trucking stocks in one day, according to Deutsche Bank analyst Richa Talwar Harnain, in moves that were “just bizarre” and “shocking”. CH Robinson plunged nearly 15 per cent, Expeditors International of Washington dropped 13 per cent and the benchmark S&P 500 index tumbled 1.6 per cent, in one of its worst days in months.

Algorhythm’s own shares soared as much as 450 per cent over three frenzied trading days, boosted by a three-minute appearance on Fox Business by chief executive Gary Atkinson, who called the firm’s AI progress a “rude wake-up call” for the trucking and logistics industry.

One shareholder well positioned for that surge was Chicago-based John M Fife. The 65-year-old investor and philanthropist has made a habit of backing tiny stocks in hot sectors in a career spanning decades, tens of millions of dollars in profits and multiple brushes with regulators.


Fife’s firm, Streeterville Capital, invested in Algorhythm last summer, in a deal that let it purchase several times the company’s market cap in newly issued shares at a discounted price, over a period of time. As the share price surged, Streeterville offloaded millions of shares, according to Algorhythm’s head of investor relations, in trades that could have earned Fife millions of dollars in profits.

“Clearly, now in hindsight, it’s worked out really well for him,” Atkinson, Algorhythm’s chief executive, told the FT regarding Streeterville’s investment in the firm.

Fife did not respond to requests for comment.

Streeterville’s financing deal with Algorhythm in August last year came after a lengthy period of transformation for the Florida-based company.

Weeks before its deal with Streeterville, it had sold the home karaoke machine business which, as The Singing Machine Company, it had operated for more than four decades. Executives had decided instead to focus on SemiCab, an AI logistics company that Algorhythm had bought, giving it a software platform to optimise freight capacity for consumer goods companies such as Indian subsidiaries of Coca-Cola and Unilever. They needed capital to develop this business.


Algorhythm chief executive Gary Atkinson, pictured in 2016 © Zuma/Alamy
The company met Fife — who had financed another Nasdaq-listed microcap, Arrive AI, with up to $40mn earlier that year — over Zoom. They were introduced by bankers at Univest Securities, whom they had hired to source funding, and struck a deal despite the veteran investor’s chequered past.

In 2007, Fife was charged by the US Securities and Exchange Commission with fraud for an alleged hedge fund market timing scheme involving “dozens of phoney family trusts” and “even more devious schemes”, according to the complaint. The case was later settled. In 2012, he was suspended by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority from association with any member for not complying with requests for information, a suspension he unsuccessfully attempted to overturn in 2020.

In 2020, the SEC charged Fife and five of his companies with unregistered securities dealing, calling him a “recidivist violator of the federal securities laws”.

The SEC alleged he and his companies made more than $60mn in profits between 2015 and 2019 from a “very lucrative” model: buying “convertible promissory notes” that converted into newly issued shares, which they would “rapidly sell . . . into the public market at a profit”. Fife and his companies had purchased such notes from around 135 different microcaps over five years, with the investor targeting hyped sectors such as “the marijuana, blockchain, bitcoin, vapour, lithium and gold mining industries”, according to the SEC.

Fife described the charge as “legally baseless” in a motion to dismiss it, which was denied. The SEC dismissed the charges in June 2025, shortly before Fife invested in Algorhythm.

Fife’s firm Streeterville also invested in Ostin Technology in 2024, according to company filings. Ostin was one of a handful of small Nasdaq-listed Chinese stocks that abruptly plunged last summer after being promoted to retail investors on social media, in a dynamic that some analysts compared to pump and dump scams, the FT previously reported. There is no suggestion that Ostin or Streeterville were involved in the unusual share price moves. Ostin did not respond to requests for comment.

Algorhythm’s Atkinson told the FT that Fife’s history had recommended him.

“He has been doing business for a long time and has a great reputation,” he said. Fife’s 2020 SEC charge was “not a big concern to us, given the fact that it was dropped”.

Algorhythm agreed to sell Fife’s Streeterville up to $20mn of new, discounted shares over a period of time, in exchange for advance payments, according to company filings. Streeterville could then immediately resell these shares into the market, reaping profits from the difference between the discounted purchase price and the stock’s market value — particularly if the price rocketed before Streeterville resold.


Algorhythm’s shares have since given up most of their gains but remain around a third higher than before the publication of its AI report © Spencer Platt/Getty Images
The deal equated to three times the company’s entire market cap a week earlier — enough to drastically dilute the shares of other investors. But Algorhythm was hungry for funding, having reported “substantial doubt” over its ability to continue operating for at least 12 months in every quarterly report since mid-2024.

“When you’re a small company like we are, and relatively unknown like we were, having access to capital . . . is not easy,” said Atkinson, Algorhythm’s chief executive. The company’s shareholder base includes one of its own executives, big market makers and a small number of institutional investors.

When Algorhythm’s share price skyrocketed, Streeterville offloaded a “couple million shares” over two days, said Brendan Hopkins, Algorhythm’s head of investor relations. The market frenzy over the firm’s AI breakthrough led retail investors to buy nearly $2mn of the stock, according to Vanda Research data.

Days later, Fugazi Research — a small short seller run by David Capablanca, and named after a scene from The Wolf of Wall Street, in which Matthew McConaughey’s character explains that a client’s paper gains or losses on a stock are all “fugazi”, or fake — shorted Algorhythm, betting that its share price would fall again.

In a Substack report, Fugazi alleged that the “‘DeepSeek’-type panic” that Algorhythm had caused in trucking stocks had allowed Fife to “dump shares”, in a reference to the sell-off triggered in early 2025 by Chinese AI start-up DeepSeek. Algorhythm, Fugazi alleged, was “dilution-funded”, and “wrapped in an AI narrative”.

Atkinson said Algorhythm was not “a brand-new entrant trying to capitalise on the AI trend”, pointing to SemiCab’s work with Indian subsidiaries of Coca-Cola and Unilever, and its investment of millions of dollars in developing its AI platform. Algorhythm announced an annualised revenue run rate of $9.7mn during December, having previously reported a $3mn net loss for the three months to September.

Algorhythm’s report on SemiCab’s AI progress “does not make speculative claims” but is based on “measured, operational results observed across active deployments” and features data that “had been discussed in prior public disclosures well before the recent market attention”, he added.

Algorhythm’s shares have since given up most of their gains but remain around a third higher than before the publication of its AI report. Trucking stocks recouped some of their losses before falling again amid the war in Iran.

“It was only a matter of time before AI disruption risk made its way into” the trucking sector, said Deutsche Bank’s Harnain, the freight analyst, pointing to heavy losses in other sectors such as software.

However, this sell-off made little rational sense, she said, and instead reflected the AI panic that has gripped the market.

“How is this company going to come in and disrupt an industry that’s worth billions of dollars and reliant on large networks and strong relationships across shipping?” she said. “I must’ve done 20 conversations on the back of that with investors, . . . and not one thought it was actually practical.”

Algorhythm’s Hopkins said the share price spike was not triggered by the company itself or by Fife, but by overeager Wall Street analysts, even going as far as to describe it as a “pump and dump” — a description that Atkinson rejected.

It was “nothing to do with us, or Streeterville, or anything. I even tried to put the brakes on”, Hopkins said, adding that he told analysts the narrative was overblown. But “once they got that karaoke angle, watch out. It was a self-fulfilling kind of thing.”

Additional reporting by George Steer in New York. Data visualisation by Ray Douglas

ONLINE

-

	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://help.ft.com/faq/gifting-and-sharing-an-article/what-is-a-gift-article/.
	https://www.ft.com/content/eba87bd4-7e55-4a7b-b14c-71bf486bfd31?syn-25a6b1a6=1

	TotalEnergies made bumper profit on Middle East oil bet
Fewer contracts increased volatility and made it possible for a single trader to dominate the market

After traffic through the Strait of Hormuz was choked, demand surged for Abu Dhabi’s Murban and Oman, both sour grades of oil shipped from ports on the Gulf of Oman © Elke Scholiers/Getty Images
TotalEnergies made bumper profit on Middle East oil bet on x (opens in a new window)
TotalEnergies made bumper profit on Middle East oil bet on facebook (opens in a new window)
TotalEnergies made bumper profit on Middle East oil bet on linkedin (opens in a new window)

Share

Save
current progress 100%
Verity Ratcliffe in London

Published14 HOURS AGO

72
Print this page
Get ahead with daily markets updates.Join the FT's WhatsApp channel

TotalEnergies dominated the Middle East’s physical oil market in March, taking advantage of the wartime disruption to make a bumper profit.

One person close to the French group said its traders had made more than $1bn after buying up every cargo of crude oil produced in the United Arab Emirates and Oman to load in May that was available to buy in March. That amounted to 70 cargoes, more than double its purchases in February.

“Potentially, this is the biggest position-taking ever made in the history of oil markets,” said Adi Imsirovic, a lecturer in energy systems at the University of Oxford.

Before the US and Israel attacked Iran on February 28, TotalEnergies was already one of the biggest traders of Platts Dubai crude partials contracts, the main benchmark for Middle Eastern oil exports to Asia.

Iran responded to the attacks by choking traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, a narrow waterway at the entrance to the Gulf where ships carrying about a fifth of the world’s supply of oil usually pass.

This posed a dilemma for pricing agency Platts, which runs the Dubai contract, as three of the five grades it uses to price were trapped in the Gulf. On March 2, it said all of the crudes that were shipped through the Strait of Hormuz would be excluded from its assessment, effective immediately.

Demand surged for Abu Dhabi’s Murban and Oman, both sour grades of oil shipped from ports on the Gulf of Oman, pushing prices higher. TotalEnergies doubled down on its purchases.

Fewer contracts increased the volatility of the benchmark and made it possible for a single entity to dominate the market. “Suddenly a lot less oil was trading and this makes any contract much more vulnerable to any one player taking a long position,” said Imsirovic.

The price of Dubai oil climbed over the course of the month — from about $70 a barrel just before the war to an all-time high of about $170 last week — as TotalEnergies continued to buy more Dubai crude. By contrast the international oil benchmark Brent crude peaked at about $120 a barrel.

While trading was about 50 per cent more active in March than the previous month, only TotalEnergies secured enough “partial” contracts to make a whole cargo.

“This month there’s been an unusually large amount of activity,” said Fabian Ng, head of Asia crude pricing at price reporting agency Argus Media. “Not only is the volume higher than usual but on the buy side, it has been completely dominated by just one player.”

TotalEnergies was able to make its enormous profit by using so-called “paper oil” instruments, such as futures, options and swaps, to hedge its exposure to physical oil and bet on prices rising.

Recommended

The Economics Show with Soumaya Keynes
The global economy is Iran’s hostage. Can it be released? With Edward Fishman

While it is easy to see who bought and sold contracts for physical oil, the paper oil market is more opaque. “By company policy, we never make any comments on our trading activities,” said a TotalEnergies representative.

“I am guessing that Total was probably very lucky to be long paper as the war happened and Hormuz got closed,” said Imsirovic. “With the premiums they were paying [for Dubai oil], under the assumption they are much longer on paper than physical, this is probably the biggest position by any one player in oil markets in history, in terms of financial gain.”

Meanwhile, the higher prices have hurt those buying oil on long-term contracts pegged to benchmarks such as Platts Dubai. Some Asian buyers have lobbied Saudi Aramco unsuccessfully to switch to pricing off ICE Brent crude futures, according to a note by Argus.

Saudi Aramco declined to comment.

-

	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://help.ft.com/faq/gifting-and-sharing-an-article/what-is-a-gift-article/.
	https://www.ft.com/content/7d11795b-f1d2-4d2b-82f0-6dfced2910ee?syn-25a6b1a6=1

	

Economists Eugene Fama, left, and Kenneth French © Jim Rice/Fairfax Media/Getty Images
Investors need to rethink the ‘factor’ approach on x (opens in a new window)
Investors need to rethink the ‘factor’ approach on facebook (opens in a new window)
Investors need to rethink the ‘factor’ approach on linkedin (opens in a new window)

Share

Save
current progress 100%
Ulrike Hoffmann-Burchardi

Published15 HOURS AGO

40
Print this page
Get ahead with daily markets updates.Join the FT's WhatsApp channel

The writer is global head of equities and chief investment officer Americas UBS Global Wealth Management

One topic that has struck me for the better part of my career is the fact that shelves of equity products and asset allocation frameworks are to this day based on a decades-old model.

This model has followed me in my career in different shapes and forms. Initially my financial economics classes required study of the Arbitrage Pricing Theory model proposed by Professor Stephen Ross of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1976. This introduced the idea that a stock’s return is driven by multiple systematic risk factors.

Eugene Fama and Kenneth French expanded on this model in 1992 by showing that three factors — market risk, size (small cap versus large cap) and style (growth versus value) — are related to stock returns. These models resurfaced in my work as a quantitative investor in pursuit of new factors that could be systematically harvested. Later, as an investor more focused on “fundamental” influences on valuation such as cash flow forecasts, I used the models to monitor and neutralise unwanted factor risk.

The impact of these models to the asset management industry has been profound. Many data vendors have institutionalised this framework by selling stocks’ factor exposures. Morningstar introduced an influential 3x3 box guide in the 1990s to classify equity mutual funds for factors by size (small, mid, large) and style (value, blend, growth). This grid still defines most asset management product shelves: US large cap, European value, and Asia tech funds are common examples. This in turn has shaped the structure of investment firms which tend to be organised by asset class, country, sector, and styles.

Yet, over the past 20 years, these categories together explain less than half of the share price performance of companies in the MSCI All Country World index. Our research at UBS has shown that style factors such as value and growth account for only 3 per cent of stock performance. Country and industry play a larger role, together making up 21 per cent of stock returns.

The majority of returns, 52 per cent, are not explained by systematic factors. This does not mean that they do not play a role, but that there is room for a new and complementary investment lens. This, in my view, is focusing more on innovation that can transform the economy at scale, such as the internet.

Even style factors such as value or growth fall short of capturing such an impact. Growth style investing — which targets faster expanding companies — might appear to capture innovation, but it is often anchored to historical performance rather than forward potential. For example, the MSCI Growth Index relies on historical growth metrics among its criteria for stock selection.

Yet, a value investing strategy — which seeks stocks with relatively low valuations — hinges on future cash flows and if the future diverges sharply from today, those projections change. We have seen once strongly growing businesses fail when innovation rendered their products obsolete: for example, Kodak, when digital photography replaced film. This does not mean we should ignore valuations.

Quite the opposite: valuations must anchor every investment decision. The key question is whether stocks are under or overvalued based on future rather than past cash flows. That entails an understanding of structural shifts.

Recommended

Markets InsightHuw van Steenis
Private credit’s stale pricing problem

The bottom line is that the returns from transformational innovation do not necessarily align with the familiar categories of the factor model paradigm of the 1970s. The investment industry needs to adapt and rethink capital allocation and investment frameworks.

There will be different ideas in different firms on how to do this. At UBS Global Wealth Management, we now have global cross-sector teams focused on a few areas that we think will have lasting impact — AI, electrification and longevity. Many asset management firms have thematic teams that cover multiple themes at any point in time, and they often shift. Sometimes this approach can lean more toward capturing narrative-driven momentum.

We think it is better to look at where returns are really coming from and focus on two to three structural shifts presenting a decade-plus investment opportunity set. One only needs to look at how the development of AI is rapidly unfolding to see the potential impact on investment portfolios.
-

	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://help.ft.com/faq/gifting-and-sharing-an-article/what-is-a-gift-article/.
	https://www.ft.com/content/8c3514be-8c7b-4d13-a59a-dd8a23fb8c40?syn-25a6b1a6=1

	

Private credit has become Wall Street’s primary worry this year, as several semi-liquid funds have faced billions of dollars in redemptions © John Taggart/Bloomberg
Distressed-debt funds target private credit downturn as ‘greatest opportunity’ since 2008 on x (opens in a new window)
Distressed-debt funds target private credit downturn as ‘greatest opportunity’ since 2008 on facebook (opens in a new window)
Distressed-debt funds target private credit downturn as ‘greatest opportunity’ since 2008 on linkedin (opens in a new window)

Share

Save
current progress 100%
Amelia Pollard and Eric Platt in New York

PublishedYESTERDAY

105
Print this page
Get ahead with daily markets updates.Join the FT's WhatsApp channel

Investors who specialise in scooping up distressed assets at bargain prices have identified a downturn in private credit as their best opportunity since the 2008 financial crisis.

These funds, which typically invest in companies with bad balance sheets but viable underlying businesses, have been largely sidelined for a decade as markets surged but are now betting on making money from strains in private credit.

“Biggest opportunity since 2008,” said Victor Khosla, founder of Strategic Value Partners, which manages $22bn in assets.

Andrew Milgram, founder of Greenwich-based Marblegate Asset Management, said: “This is not about a few bad loans . . . We’re out in the market right now raising a new fund because this is the greatest opportunity I’ve ever seen in my lifetime. I couldn’t imagine God would smile on me like this.”

Private credit has become one of Wall Street’s top worries this year, as several funds, managed by the likes of Apollo Global Management, Blackstone and Ares, have faced billions of dollars in redemptions amid questions about their exposure to software companies at risk of losing out to AI.

“These outflows have reached a tipping point, whereby everybody on a rational basis has to ask for their money back,” said John Aylward, the founder of Sona Asset Management. “You have a large amount of distress, and you have forced selling, and it’s going to provide great opportunities that we’re already seeing.”

The proportion of US leveraged loans with an interest coverage ratio — a measure of ability to service debt — weaker than a level that is considered stressed has more than doubled to 20 per cent since 2019, according to recent research by credit investor Davidson Kempner.

At the same time, more borrowers are opting to defer repayments and increase their loan balance. This combination has led some investors and analysts to argue the true corporate default rate is far higher than reported.

Distressed investors bristle at being called “vulture funds” — a sobriquet that gained traction in the 1980s for hedge funds that swoop in when companies run into trouble — arguing they are far more sophisticated than the industry’s early bottom feeders. Many are no longer purely distressed investors, having diversified into buying higher-quality credit and equity.

Milgram at Marblegate said he and his team go on “regional swings” — short trips to cities such as Cincinnati and Charlotte to get a sense of the mood there. He takes local bankers out to steak dinners to learn what keeps them up at night.

For the past several months, the picture has grown increasingly grim. Milgram said the head of restructuring at a large regional bank recently told him private equity firms were abandoning deals and handing over portfolio companies at an “alarming rate”.

SVP specialises in hard assets such as Texas toll roads and Europe’s largest car park business. But recently Khosla directed a small team to study software. “We can’t for the life of us figure out who the losers and winners will be yet,” he said. “It’s too early.”

Since the start of 2025, the firm has invested $3.8bn but sold assets worth more than double that amount, far more than usual, suggesting it wants to have cash reserves as distressed opportunities emerge.

“Our view is that the [distressed] situations will overwhelm the amount of dry powder that’s out there,” said David Walch, partner and co-portfolio manager at asset manager King Street, referring to available capital.

Even the biggest players in private credit are preparing for the worst. Apollo’s chief executive, Marc Rowan, told investors in December that he needed to position the firm to make money “when something bad happens”.

Recommended

Markets InsightHuw van Steenis
Private credit’s stale pricing problem

This is not the first time in recent memory distressed investors have predicted a downturn. When Silicon Valley Bank imploded in 2023, there was a similar buzz that many more companies might buckle under the fatal combination of high interest rates and heavy debt loads.

Yet that wave of failures never came about. One executive of a top private capital firm said distressed investors were trying to drum up excitement.

“Hedge fund managers . . . have to create a sense of like, ‘the house is on fire, the house is on fire’. What they’re trying to do is to get banks to pull [credit] lines. They’re trying to create a frenzy because otherwise it’s going to be like watching paint dry,” they added.

Additional reporting by Sujeet Indap.

