2026-04-19-WaPo-mainpage

christian.piatt
Logo of The Washington Post
Democracy Dies in Darkness
Politics

Opinions

Style

Investigations

Climate

Well+Being

Business

Tech

World

D.C., Md. & Va.

Sports

WP Intelligence

Ask The Post AI

Trump says U.S. seized Iranian ship trying to bypass blockade of Strait of Hormuz
The operation marks the first ship boarding by U.S. forces since the naval blockade took effect Monday, as part of Trump’s effort to exert pressure on Tehran.
By Mariana Alfaro, Tara Copp, Joyce Sohyun Lee and Sammy WestfallUpdated 1 hour ago
Here’s what the stock market might have gotten wrong about the war

The sun rises Saturday behind tankers anchored in the Strait of Hormuz off the coast of Qeshm Island, Iran. (AP)

Police gather in front of a house in Shreveport, Louisiana, as they investigate. (Times-Picayune/New Orleans Advocate/AP)
8 children killed in Louisiana shooting, police say
The shooter, who was related to some of the children, is dead. It was the deadliest mass killing in the U.S. in two years, data shows.
By Mariana Alfaro and Chris Hacker

(University of Maine at Presque Isle)
Students are speeding through their online degrees in weeks, alarming educators
Some online colleges allow students to take unlimited courses on their own time, leading to quick degrees and worries about devaluing credentials.
By Todd Wallack

Assistant Attorney General Harmeet K. Dhillon in September. (Getty Images)
DOJ demands Detroit-area 2024 ballots, escalating election scrutiny
Justice Department official Harmeet K. Dhillon wrote that she is seeking ballots to investigate election law compliance. Democratic state officials call the request baseless.
By Patrick Marley
Trump’s fixation on White House ballroom is increasing, Post analysis finds
The president has publicly highlighted his ballroom project on roughly a third of the days this year.
By Clara Ence Morse and Dan Diamond

President Donald Trump points to a model of his proposed ballroom in October. (Getty Images)
Where U.S. science has been hit hardest after Trump’s first year
Flying can be a nightmare. Is 21 hours on Amtrak any better?
We traded a low price for a longer trip with national park views, spotty WiFi and moments of relaxation and restlessness.
By Andrea Sachs
play
mute
(Toni Sandys/The Post)
Soaring jet fuel prices, shortages may threaten your European trip
Illustration of man sitting in between sound waves
(Post illustration; iStock)
Why we can’t sit alone with our thoughts anymore
A survey shows Americans listen to nearly four hours of audio a day. There are good reasons to take breaks and be comfortable with silence, experts say.
By Jenny Singer
Opinions

Megan McArdle
What happened to academia? Consider frozen yogurt.

Jason Willick
Democrats are closer than you think to upending the Electoral College

Editorial Board
A Medicare-for-all future in the United Kingdom
Katherine Ellison
What a 1994 bombing in Argentina reveals about the myth of an ‘emboldened’ Iran

Editorial Board
Dictators increasingly team up to hunt dissenters abroad

Editorial Board
The Corporate Transparency Act sounds harmless. It’s not.

Theodore R. Johnson
Not everyone notices the signs in life. Do you?
Ethan Norton
Why Democrats are failing to reach young voters like me

Editorial Board
How corporate welfare for hospitals is raising health care costs
Gary M. Stern
The Justice Department’s position on presidential papers is astounding

Editorial Board
Putin’s wartime economy is contracting, even with high oil prices
Danielle Pletka
How America became home to the relatives of foreign thugs

Commentary from the web
Ripple brings together diverse perspectives from other publications to show how the country is engaging with today's biggest stories, and it operates independently of The Washington Post newsroom.

Learn more
PreviousNext
from City Journal
Why we should be skeptical about high graduation rates
Why we should be skeptical about high graduation rates
from The Nation
Mamdani wants to show that Democratic socialism “can flourish anywhere”
Mamdani wants to show that Democratic socialism “can flourish anywhere”
from The Hill
In 2028, the candidate who admits the system has failed everyone will win
In 2028, the candidate who admits the system has failed everyone will win
from The Conversation
Pete Hegseth’s Pentagon prayer services and the notion of separation of church and state
Pete Hegseth’s Pentagon prayer services and the notion of separation of church and state
from The Hill
Spanberger’s fall from grace wasn’t ‘stunning’ — it was predictable
Spanberger’s fall from grace wasn’t ‘stunning’ — it was predictable
More Top Stories

Pope Leo XIV in the popemobile at the Luanda, Angola, airport on Saturday. (Photos by Carmen Yasmine Abd Ali for The Post)
A display of love for an American pope but not for an American president
Catholics expressed admiration for Pope Leo XIV on his Africa tour, as public opinion of the United States has plummeted across the world since the start of the war with Iran.
By Rachel Chason
D.C. police sought to arrest Rep. Cory Mills after assault call, records show
In red states, anti-immigrant bills are failing as businesses push back
Justin Fairfax obsessed over clearing his name. His family life was destroyed.
ColumnMichelle Singletary
Parents have been amassing unsustainable debt paying for college. That’s about to change.
Most Read
1
Students are speeding through their online degrees in weeks, alarming educators
2
Trump says U.S. seized Iranian ship trying to bypass blockade of Strait of Hormuz
3
I spent 21 hours traveling by train to avoid flights. Was it worth it?
4
8 children killed in Louisiana shooting, police say
Weekend Reads

What to eat (and avoid) to lower your Parkinson’s risk

AnalysisKaren Tumulty
Trump tests loyalty of Christian supporters as erratic behavior escalates

The surprising ways cannabis may affect the aging brain

These are signs you may be a ‘placeholder partner’ in your relationship
Latest from The Post

Curtis Mead, Nationals get redemption in series finale vs. Giants
1 hour ago

6 spring salads to make the most of the season’s bounty

James Wood, after an offseason of squats, hopes strong start won’t fade

Trump administration finds value in IMF, World Bank a year after slamming them
Politics & Government

Roosevelt in the White House in 1908. (AP)
Trump officials push Theodore Roosevelt for Pro Football Hall of Fame
“I think we’re going to see Theodore Roosevelt inducted,” Interior Secretary Doug Burgum said, touting the former president’s work to make the game safer.
By Dan Diamond
Trump orders more access to psychedelics like LSD, psilocybin and ibogaine
As sexual misconduct allegations rock Congress, some push for new rules
Iran disputes claims of new agreements with Trump
Trump came to Arizona to rally young voters. An older crowd greeted him.

Business & Technology

Trump administration finds value in IMF, World Bank a year after slamming them
Iran disputes claims of new agreements with Trump
Federal judge blocks $6 billion Nexstar-Tegna TV merger
Anthropic CEO visits White House amid hacking fears over new AI model
As fuel prices rise, a new technique of gas theft is spreading
National
play
mute
Inside a growing movement warning that AI could turn on humanity
Bob Hall has died. The father of wheelchair racing made Boston Marathon history.
A flight full of strangers celebrated this 2-year-old’s cancer recovery
Singer D4vd arrested in connection with death of teen girl
ICE agent charged with assault for allegedly pointing gun during Minneapolis incident
World

Kremlin-friendly ex-president headed to victory in Bulgaria election
Updated 1 hour ago
Iran closes Strait of Hormuz again; 2 ships report attacks while trying to cross
Why China is taking a behind-the-scenes role in the Iran war
Iran disputes claims of new agreements with Trump
One of the world’s most wanted men is arrested, ending years-long hunt
Climate, Health & Science
Illustration of a man getting therapy from a robot.
The risks of sharing your feelings with the bot that has none
Former FEMA leader set to return after being ousted
Four takeaways from RFK Jr.’s contentious House committee hearings
Trump officially taps Erica Schwartz to lead CDC, avoiding vaccine skeptics
Congress ends ban on mining near Minnesota’s pristine Boundary Waters
D.C., Md. & Va.

D.C. sees seven homicides in five days, the deadliest stretch of 2026
As D.C. police search for dirt biker who struck boy, his family seeks change
Free rides, political pressure campaign the latest in Empower’s fight
D.C. police lieutenant charged with seeking to have sex with a minor
CWG Live: Cool early workweek. A freeze watch late Monday into early Tuesday.
Sports

After an offseason of squats, Nationals’ James Wood hopes strong start won’t fade
Dillon Dingler hits 3-run HR; Tigers beat struggling Crochet and Red Sox 6-2
Cubs hand Mets their 11th straight loss by rallying for a 2-1 win in 10 innings
Francisco Lindor defends manager Carlos Mendoza after Mets drop 11th straight game
Judge and Rice hit early homers off Ragans as Yankees beat skidding Royals 7-0 for 3-game sweep
Featured Videos
 
Watch All
PreviousNext

Let's Talk Numbers: How much is your car payment?

  0:38

Solve for Tomorrow with Rohini Manickam

  1:15

The truth about magnesium supplements may surprise you

  1:23

A new baby monkey, Yuji, and his plushie are stealing hearts

  0:41

Berlin Zoo offers tour for people living with dementia

  0:56

Rep. Lauren Boebert regrets her vote on Juneteenth

  0:59

Someone was seen climbing the Las Vegas Sphere

  0:27

Where to eat 3 great meals in Philadelphia

  1:11

Texas restaurant scoops up crawfish ice cream

  1:11

NY Bridal Fashion breaks tradition

  1:04

Advice

ColumnCarolyn Hax
Carolyn Hax: Recently separated dad sees daughter’s wedding as ‘hoax’
R. Eric Thomas
Asking Eric: Friend’s body odor causes conflict
Sahaj Kaur Kohli
Ask Sahaj: Isn’t it racist to insist your kids marry within their race?
Judith Martin, Nicholas Martin and Jacobina Martin
Miss Manners: Friend gifted me a luxury car. I can’t stop saying, ‘Thank you.’
Live Chats

Dining chat: Ask Post food critic Elazar Sontag your questions
3 days from now
Carolyn Hax chat: I was excited to graduate, until I realized my family isn’t coming.
Cooking chat: After so many years, how do I quit making dinner every night for my family?
Dining chat: Do I really have to tip 20% at bakeries and cafes?
Carolyn Hax chat: My father-in-law scoffs at my heart disease
Style

ColumnMonica Hesse
The truths about sex that two new shows reveal
Bob Odenkirk had a solid career in comedy. What happened next wasn’t so funny.
ColumnMonica Hesse
Justin Trudeau at Coachella is a Rorschach test
That Chappell Roan ‘hates children’ story? It was all a misunderstanding.
Arts & Entertainment

ColumnGeoff Edgers
Lily Allen’s concerts are lasting less than an hour. Maybe she has a point.
Animated spinoff turns the ‘Stranger Things’ aesthetic upside down
The newest TV shows and movies to stream right now
Police rushed to check on a 91-year-old – and found her gaming
Travel

Don’t sit down at that bar in Madrid, and other tips from chef José Andrés
How to avoid a terrible restaurant in Paris
We asked: Can a crying baby get you kicked off a flight?
Want to be a Canadian? It’s never been easier.
Food

6 spring salads to make the most of the season’s bounty
Skip the strawberries and pair rhubarb with raspberries in this stunning tart
ReviewElazar Sontag
Small-town hospitality sets Brasserie Royale apart from big-city bistros
A creamy skillet chicken bridges the gap between winter and spring
Recipes
What do you want to cook today?
Find a recipe
Search
PreviousNext

Salmon, Kimchi and Corn Quesadillas
1 hour 20 mins Main★ 4.1 (19)

Pizza Pasta Salad
45 mins Main★ 3.9 (117)

Gochujang Eggplant Stir-Fry
20 mins Main★ 3.9 (121)

Khoresht-e Karafs (Persian Celery Stew)
1 hour Main★ 4.1 (65)

Lemony Green Bean Pasta Salad
30 mins Salad★ 3.7 (33)
Kheema Pav Sandwich (Bombay Sloppy Joes)
35 mins Main★ 4.8 (16)
Sheet Pan Gnocchi With Leeks, Cherry Tomatoes and Gouda
45 mins Main★ 3.8 (90)
Morning Glory Muffins
Snack★ 3.9 (32)
Crunchy Tacos With Spicy Tofu
1 hour Main★ 3.9 (57)
Ranch Chicken Salad Wraps
15 mins Main★ 3.5 (37)
Diversions
Comics
Crosswords
Keyword
Wridges
Quiz
Mah Jongg
Sudoku
Horoscopes
Solitaire