dam Smith

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Appearance hide
Birthday mode (Baby Globe)

Disabled

Enabled
Learn more about Birthday mode
Text

Small

Standard

Large
Width

Standard

Wide
Color (beta)

Automatic

Light

Dark
Checked
Page protected with pending changes
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Adam smith)
This article is about the Scottish economist and philosopher. For other people named Adam Smith, see Adam Smith (disambiguation).
Adam Smith
FRS FRSE FRSA
Painting of Smith
Posthumous Muir portrait, c. 1800
Born	Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland
Baptised	16 June [O.S. 5 June] 1723[1]
Died	17 July 1790 (aged 67)
Edinburgh, Scotland
Resting place	Canongate Kirkyard
Education
Alma mater	
University of Glasgow
Balliol College, Oxford
Philosophical work
Era	Early modern period
Region	Western philosophy
Main interests	Political philosophy, ethics, economics
Notable works	
The Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759)
The Wealth of Nations (1776)
Notable ideas	
Classical economics
Free market
Division of labour
Absolute advantage
Invisible hand
Signature

Adam Smith (baptised 16 June [O.S. 5 June] 1723[1] – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish[a] economist and philosopher who was a pioneer in the field of political economy and key figure during the Scottish Enlightenment.[3] Seen by many as the "father of economics",[4] or the "father of capitalism",[5] he is primarily known for two classic works: The Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759) and An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (1776). The latter, often abbreviated as The Wealth of Nations, is regarded as his magnum opus, marking the inception of modern economic scholarship as a comprehensive system and an academic discipline. Smith refuses to explain the distribution of wealth and power in terms of divine will and instead appeals to natural, political, social, economic, legal, environmental and technological factors, as well as the interactions among them. The work is notable for its contribution to economic theory, particularly in its exposition of the concept of absolute advantage.[6]

Born in Kirkcaldy, Fife, he studied social philosophy at the University of Glasgow and at the University of Oxford, where he was one of the only students to benefit from scholarships set up by John Snell. Following his graduation, he delivered a successful series of public lectures at the University of Edinburgh,[7] that met with acclaim. This led to a collaboration with David Hume during the Scottish Enlightenment. Smith obtained a professorship at Glasgow, where he taught moral philosophy. During this period, he wrote and published The Theory of Moral Sentiments. Subsequently, he assumed a tutoring position that facilitated travel throughout Europe, where he encountered intellectual figures of his era.

In response to the prevailing policy of safeguarding national markets and merchants through the reduction of imports and the augmentation of exports, a practice that came to be known as mercantilism, Smith laid the foundational principles of classical free-market economic theory. The Wealth of Nations was a precursor to the modern academic discipline of economics. In this and other works, he developed the concept of division of labour and expounded upon how rational self-interest and competition can lead to economic prosperity. Smith was controversial in his day and his general approach and writing style were often satirised by writers such as Horace Walpole.[8]

Biography
Early life

Portrait of Smith's mother, Margaret Douglas
Adam Smith was born in Kirkcaldy, in Fife, Scotland. His father, Adam Smith senior, was a Scottish Writer to the Signet (senior solicitor), advocate and prosecutor (judge advocate) and also served as comptroller of the customs in Kirkcaldy.[9] Smith's mother was born Margaret Douglas, daughter of the landed Robert Douglas of Strathendry, also in Fife; she married Smith's father in 1720. Two months before Smith was born, his father died, leaving his mother a widow.[10] The date of Smith's baptism into the Church of Scotland at Kirkcaldy was 5 June 1723[11] and this has often been treated as if it were also his date of birth,[9] which is unknown.

Although few events in Smith's early childhood are known, the Scottish journalist John Rae, a biographer of Smith, recorded that Smith was abducted by Romani at the age of three and released when others went to rescue him.[b][13] Smith was close to his mother, who probably encouraged him to pursue his scholarly ambitions.[14] He attended the Burgh School of Kirkcaldy—characterised by Rae as "one of the best secondary schools of Scotland at that period"[12]—from 1729 to 1737, learning Latin, mathematics, history and writing."[14]

Formal education
Smith entered the University of Glasgow at age 14 and studied moral philosophy under Francis Hutcheson.[14] Here he developed his passion for the philosophical concepts of reason, civilian liberties and the freedom of speech. In 1740 he was the graduate scholar presented to undertake postgraduate studies at the Balliol College of the University of Oxford, under the Snell Exhibition.[15]

Smith considered the teaching at Glasgow to be far superior to that at Oxford, which he found intellectually stifling.[16] In Book V, Chapter II of The Wealth of Nations, he wrote: "In the University of Oxford, the greater part of the public professors have, for these many years, given up altogether even the pretence of teaching." Smith is also reported to have complained to friends that Oxford officials once discovered him reading a copy of David Hume's A Treatise of Human Nature, and they subsequently confiscated his book and punished him severely for reading it.[12][17][18] According to William Robert Scott, "The Oxford of [Smith's] time gave little if any help towards what was to be his lifework."[19] Nevertheless, he took the opportunity while at Oxford to teach himself several subjects by reading many books from the shelves of the large Bodleian Library.[20] When Smith was not studying on his own, his time at Oxford was not a happy one, according to his letters.[21] Near the end of his time there, he began suffering from shaking fits, probably the symptoms of a nervous breakdown.[22] He left Oxford in 1746, before his scholarship ended.[22][23]

In Book V of The Wealth of Nations, Smith comments on the low quality of instruction and the meager intellectual activity at English universities, when compared to their Scottish counterparts. He attributes this both to the rich endowments of the colleges at Oxford and the University of Cambridge, which made the income of professors independent of their ability to attract students, and to the fact that distinguished men of letters could make an even more comfortable living as ministers of the Church of England.[18]

Teaching career
Smith began delivering public lectures in 1748 at the University of Edinburgh,[24] sponsored by the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh under the patronage of Lord Kames.[25] His lecture topics included rhetoric and belles-lettres,[26] and later the subject of "the progress of opulence". On this latter topic, he first expounded his economic philosophy of "the obvious and simple system of natural liberty". While Smith was not adept at public speaking, his lectures met with success.[27]

In 1750 Smith met the philosopher David Hume, who was his senior by more than a decade. In their writings covering history, politics, philosophy, economics, and religion, Smith and Hume shared closer intellectual and personal bonds than with other important figures of the Scottish Enlightenment.[28]

In 1751 Smith earned a professorship at Glasgow teaching logic courses, and in 1752, he was elected a member of the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh, having been introduced to the society by Henry Home, Lord Kames. The following year, when the position of head of Moral Philosophy in Glasgow became vacant, Smith took over the role.[27] He worked as an academic for the next 13 years, which he characterised as "by far the most useful and therefore by far the happiest and most honorable period [of his life]".[29]

Smith published The Theory of Moral Sentiments in 1759, embodying some of his Glasgow lectures. This work was concerned with how human morality depends on sympathy between agent and spectator, or the individual and other members of society. Smith defined "mutual sympathy" as the basis of moral sentiments. He based his explanation, not on a special "moral sense" as Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury, and Hutcheson had done, nor on utility as Hume did, but on mutual sympathy, a term best captured in modern parlance by the 20th-century concept of empathy, the capacity to recognise feelings that are being experienced by another being.[30]

A drawing of a man sitting down
François Quesnay, one of the leaders of the physiocratic school of thought
Following the publication of The Theory of Moral Sentiments, Smith became so popular that many wealthy students left their schools in other countries to enroll at Glasgow to learn under Smith.[31] At this time, Smith began to give more attention to jurisprudence and economics in his lectures and less to his theories of morals.[32] For example, Smith lectured that the cause of increase in national wealth is labour, rather than the nation's quantity of gold or silver, which is the basis for mercantilism, the economic theory that dominated Western European economic policies at the time.[33]

In 1762, the University of Glasgow conferred on Smith the title of Doctor of Laws (LL.D.).[34] At the end of 1763, he obtained an offer from the chancellor of the exchequer, Charles Townshend—who had been introduced to Smith by David Hume—to tutor his stepson, Henry Scott, the young Duke of Buccleuch as preparation for a career in international politics. Smith resigned from his professorship in 1764 to take the tutoring position. He subsequently attempted to return the fees he had collected from his students because he had resigned partway through the term, but his students refused.[35]

Tutoring, travels, European intellectuals
Smith's tutoring job entailed touring Europe with Scott, during which time he educated Scott on a variety of subjects. He was paid £300 per year (plus expenses) along with a £300-per-year pension; roughly twice his former income as a teacher.[35] Smith first travelled as a tutor to Toulouse, France, where he stayed for a year and a half. According to his own account, he found Toulouse to be somewhat boring, having written to Hume that he "had begun to write a book to pass away the time".[35] After touring the south of France the group moved to Geneva, where Smith met the French writer and philosopher Voltaire.[36]

Philosopher David Hume, painting
David Hume was a friend and contemporary of Smith's.
From Geneva, the party moved to Paris. Here, Smith met the American publisher and diplomat Benjamin Franklin, who a few years later would lead the opposition in the American colonies against four British resolutions from Charles Townshend (in history known as the Townshend Acts), which threatened American colonial self-government and imposed revenue duties on a number of items necessary to the colonies. In Paris Smith encountered the Physiocracy school founded by François Quesnay and conversed with their intellectuals.[37] Physiocrats were opposed to mercantilism, the dominating economic theory of the time, illustrated in their motto Laissez faire et laissez passer, le monde va de lui même! (Let do and let pass, the world goes on by itself!).

The wealth of France had been virtually depleted by Louis XIV[c] and Louis XV in ruinous wars,[d] and was further exhausted in aiding the American revolutionary soldiers, against the British. Given that the British economy of the day yielded an income distribution that stood in contrast to that which existed in France, Smith concluded that "with all its imperfections, [the Physiocratic school] is perhaps the nearest approximation to the truth that has yet been published upon the subject of political economy."[38] The distinction between productive versus unproductive labour—the physiocratic classe steril—was a predominant issue in the development and understanding of what would become classical economic theory.

Later years
In 1766 Henry Scott's younger brother died in Paris, and Smith's tour as a tutor ended shortly thereafter.[39] Smith returned home that year to Kirkcaldy, and he devoted much of the next decade to writing his magnum opus.[40] There, he befriended Henry Moyes, a young blind man who showed precocious aptitude. Smith secured the patronage of David Hume and Thomas Reid in the young man's education.[41] In May 1767 Smith was elected fellow of the Royal Society of London,[42][43] and was elected a member of the Literary Club in 1775. The Wealth of Nations was published in 1776 and was an instant success, selling out its first edition in only six months.[44]

In 1778 Smith was appointed to a post as commissioner of customs in Scotland and went to live with his mother (who died in 1784)[45] in Panmure House in the Canongate in Edinburgh.[46] Five years later, as a member of the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh when it received its royal charter, he automatically became one of the founding members of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.[47] From 1787 to 1789 he occupied the honorary position of Lord Rector of the University of Glasgow.[48]

Death
A plaque of Smith
A commemorative plaque for Smith is located in Smith's home town of Kirkcaldy.
Smith died in the northern wing of Panmure House in Edinburgh on 17 July 1790 after a painful illness. His body was buried in the Canongate Kirkyard.[49] On his deathbed, Smith expressed disappointment that he had not achieved more.[50]

Smith's literary executors were two friends from the Scottish academic world: the physicist and chemist Joseph Black and the pioneering geologist James Hutton.[51] Smith left behind many notes and some unpublished material, but gave instructions to destroy anything that was not fit for publication.[52] He mentioned an early unpublished History of Astronomy as probably suitable, and it duly appeared in 1795, along with other material such as Essays on Philosophical Subjects.[51]

Smith's library went by his will to David Douglas, Lord Reston (son of his cousin Colonel Robert Douglas of Strathendry, Fife), who lived with Smith.[53] It was eventually divided between his two surviving children, Cecilia Margaret (Mrs. Cunningham) and David Anne (Mrs. Bannerman). On the death in 1878 of her husband, the Reverend W. B. Cunningham of Prestonpans, Mrs. Cunningham sold some of the books. The remainder passed to her son, Professor Robert Oliver Cunningham of Queen's College, Belfast, who presented a part to the library of Queen's College. After his death, the remaining books were sold. On the death of Mrs. Bannerman in 1879, her portion of the library went intact to the New College (of the Free Church) in Edinburgh and the collection was transferred to the University of Edinburgh Main Library in 1972.

Personality and beliefs
Character
A drawing of a man standing up, with one hand holding a cane and the other pointing at a book
Portrait of Smith by John Kay, 1790
Not much is known about Smith's personal views beyond what can be deduced from his published articles. His personal papers were destroyed after his death, per his request.[52] He never married,[54] and seems to have maintained a close relationship with his mother, with whom he lived after his return from France and who died six years before him.[55]

Smith was described by several of his contemporaries and biographers as comically absent-minded, with peculiar habits of speech and gait, and a smile of "inexpressible benignity".[56] He was known to talk to himself,[50] a habit that began during his childhood when he would smile in rapt conversation with invisible companions.[57] He also had occasional spells of imaginary illness,[50] and he is reported to have had books and papers placed in tall stacks in his study.[57] According to one story, Smith took Charles Townshend on a tour of a tanning factory, and while discussing free trade, Smith walked into a huge tanning pit from which he needed help to escape.[58] He is also said to have put bread and butter into a teapot, drunk the concoction, and declared it to be the worst cup of tea he had ever had. According to another account, Smith distractedly went out walking in his nightgown and ended up 15 miles (24 km) outside town, before nearby church bells brought him back to reality.[57][58]

James Boswell, who was a student of Smith's at Glasgow University, and later knew him at the Literary Club, says that Smith thought that speaking about his ideas in conversation might reduce the sale of his books, so his conversation was unimpressive. According to Boswell, he once told Sir Joshua Reynolds, that "he made it a rule when in company never to talk of what he understood".[59]

Smith has been alternatively described as someone who "had a large nose, bulging eyes, a protruding lower lip, a nervous twitch, and a speech impediment" and one whose "countenance was manly and agreeable".[18][60] Smith is said to have acknowledged his looks at one point, saying, "I am a beau in nothing but my books."[18] Smith rarely sat for portraits,[61] so almost all depictions of him created during his lifetime were drawn from memory. The best-known portraits of Smith are the profile by James Tassie and two etchings by John Kay.[62] The line engravings produced for the covers of 19th-century reprints of The Wealth of Nations were based largely on Tassie's medallion.[63]

Religious views
Considerable scholarly debate has occurred about the nature of Smith's religious views. His father had shown a strong interest in Christianity and belonged to the moderate wing of the Church of Scotland,[64] and the fact that he received the Snell Exhibition suggests that he may have gone to Oxford with the intention of pursuing a career in the Church of England.[65]

The British economist Ronald Coase challenged the view that Smith was a deist, based on the fact that Smith's writings never explicitly invoke God as an explanation of the harmonies of the natural or the human worlds.[66] According to Coase, though Smith does sometimes refer to the "Great Architect of the Universe", later scholars such as Jacob Viner have "very much exaggerated the extent to which Adam Smith was committed to a belief in a personal God",[67] a belief for which Coase finds little evidence in passages such as the one in the Wealth of Nations in which Smith writes that the curiosity of mankind about the "great phenomena of nature", such as "the generation, the life, growth, and dissolution of plants and animals", has led men to "enquire into their causes", and that "superstition first attempted to satisfy this curiosity, by referring all those wonderful appearances to the immediate agency of the gods. Philosophy afterwards endeavoured to account for them, from more familiar causes, or from such as mankind were better acquainted with than the agency of the gods".[67] Some authors argue that Smith's social and economic philosophy is inherently theological and that his entire model of social order is logically dependent on the notion of God's action in nature.[68] Brendan Long argues that Smith was a theist,[69] whereas according to Gavin Kennedy, Smith was "in some sense" a Christian.[70]

Smith was also a close friend of David Hume, who, despite debate about his religious views in modern scholarship, was commonly characterised in his own time as an atheist.[71] The publication in 1777 of Smith's letter to William Strahan, in which he described Hume's courage in the face of death in spite of his irreligiosity, attracted considerable controversy.[72]

Published works
The Theory of Moral Sentiments
Main article: The Theory of Moral Sentiments
In 1759 Smith published his first work, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, sold by the co-publishers Andrew Millar of London and Alexander Kincaid of Edinburgh.[73] Smith continued making extensive revisions to the book until his death.[e] Although The Wealth of Nations is widely regarded as Smith's most influential work, Smith himself is believed to have considered The Theory of Moral Sentiments to be a superior work.[75]

In the work, Smith critically examines the moral thinking of his time, and suggests that conscience arises from dynamic and interactive social relationships through which people seek "mutual sympathy of sentiments."[76] His goal in writing the work was to explain the source of mankind's ability to form moral judgement, given that people begin life with no moral sentiments at all. Smith proposes a theory of sympathy, in which the act of observing others and seeing the judgements they form of both others and oneself makes people aware of themselves and how others perceive their behaviour. The feedback received by an individual from perceiving (or imagining) others' judgement creates an incentive to achieve "mutual sympathy of sentiments" with them and leads people to develop habits, and then principles, of behaviour, which come to constitute one's conscience.[77]

While scholars have historically recognised a conflict - often phrased the "Adam Smith Problem"-between the exaggeration on sympathy in The Theory of Moral Sentiments and self-interest in The Wealth of Nations,[78] modern scholarship largely overlooks this contradiction. Instead the two works are widely seen as part of a unified system of moral and economic philosophy that are able to co-exist and complement each other.[79][80][81] These scholars contend that in The Theory of Moral Sentiments, Smith develops a theory of psychology in which individuals seek the approval of the "impartial spectator" as a result of a natural desire to have outside observers sympathise with their sentiments. Rather than viewing The Theory of Moral Sentiments and The Wealth of Nations as presenting incompatible views of human nature, some Smith scholars regard the works as emphasising different aspects of human nature that vary depending on the situation. In the first part – The Theory of Moral Sentiments – he laid down the foundation of his vision of humanity and society. In the second – The Wealth of Nations – he elaborated on the virtue of prudence, which for him meant the relations between people in the private sphere of the economy. It was his plan to further elaborate on the virtue of justice in the third book.[79] James Otteson argues that both books are Newtonian in their methodology and deploy a similar "market model" for explaining the creation and development of large-scale human social orders, including morality, economics, as well as language.[80] Robert Ekelund and Hebert offer a differing view, observing that self-interest is present in both works and that "in the former, sympathy is the moral faculty that holds self-interest in check, whereas in the latter, competition is the economic faculty that restrains self-interest."[81]

The Wealth of Nations
Main article: The Wealth of Nations
Disagreement exists between classical and neoclassical economists about the central message of Smith's most influential work: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (1776). Neoclassical economists emphasise Smith's invisible hand,[82] a concept mentioned in the middle of his work – Book IV, Chapter II – and classical economists believe that Smith stated his programme for promoting the "wealth of nations" in the first sentences, which attributes the growth of wealth and prosperity to the division of labour. He elaborated on the virtue of prudence, which for him meant the relations between people in the private sphere of the economy. He planned to further elaborate on the virtue of justice in the third book.[79]

Smith used the term "the invisible hand" in "History of Astronomy"[83] referring to "the invisible hand of Jupiter", and once in each of his The Theory of Moral Sentiments[84] (1759) and The Wealth of Nations[85] (1776). This last statement about "an invisible hand" has been interpreted in numerous ways.

A brown building
Later building on the site where Smith wrote The Wealth of Nations
As every individual, therefore, endeavours as much as he can both to employ his capital in the support of domestic industry, and so to direct that industry that its produce may be of the greatest value; every individual necessarily labours to render the annual revenue of the society as great as he can. He generally, indeed, neither intends to promote the public interest, nor knows how much he is promoting it. By preferring the support of domestic to that of foreign industry, he intends only his own security; and by directing that industry in such a manner as its produce may be of the greatest value, he intends only his own gain, and he is in this, as in many other cases, led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention. Nor is it always the worse for the society that it was no part of it. By pursuing his own interest he frequently promotes that of the society more effectually than when he really intends to promote it. I have never known much good done by those who affected to trade for the public good. It is an affectation, indeed, not very common among merchants, and very few words need be employed in dissuading them from it.

Those who regard that statement as Smith's central message also quote frequently Smith's dictum:[86]

It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. We address ourselves, not to their humanity but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own necessities but of their advantages.

However, in The Theory of Moral Sentiments he had a more sceptical approach to self-interest as driver of behaviour:

How selfish soever man may be supposed, there are evidently some principles in his nature, which interest him in the fortune of others, and render their happiness necessary to him, though he derives nothing from it except the pleasure of seeing it.

The first page of a book
The first page of The Wealth of Nations, 1776 London edition
In relation to Bernard Mandeville's contention that "Private Vices ... may be turned into Public Benefits",[87] Smith's belief that when an individual pursues his self-interest under conditions of justice, he unintentionally promotes the good of society. Self-interested competition in the free market, he argued, would tend to benefit society as a whole by keeping prices low, while still building in an incentive for a wide variety of goods and services. Nevertheless, he was wary of businessmen and warned of their "conspiracy against the public or in some other contrivance to raise prices."[88] Again and again, Smith warned of the collusive nature of business interests, which may form cabals or monopolies, fixing the highest price "which can be squeezed out of the buyers."[89] Smith also warned that a business-dominated political system would allow a conspiracy of businesses and industry against consumers, with the former scheming to influence politics and legislation. Smith states that the interest of manufacturers and merchants "in any particular branch of trade or manufactures, is always in some respects different from, and even opposite to, that of the public ... The proposal of any new law or regulation of commerce which comes from this order, ought always to be listened to with great precaution, and ought never be adopted till after having been long and carefully examined, not only with the most scrupulous but with the most suspicious attention."[90] Thus Smith's chief worry seems to be when business is given special protections or privileges from government; by contrast, in the absence of such special political favours, he believed that business activities were generally beneficial to the whole society:

It is the great multiplication of the production of all the different arts, in consequence of the division of labour, which occasions, in a well-governed society, that universal opulence which extends itself to the lowest ranks of the people. Every workman has a great quantity of his own work to dispose of beyond what he himself has occasion for; and every other workman being exactly in the same situation, he is enabled to exchange a great quantity of his own goods for a great quantity, or, what comes to the same thing, for the price of a great quantity of theirs. He supplies them abundantly with what they have occasion for, and they accommodate him as amply with what he has occasion for, and a general plenty diffuses itself through all the different ranks of society. (The Wealth of Nations, I.i.10)

The neoclassical interest in Smith's statement about "an invisible hand" originates in the possibility of seeing it as a precursor of neoclassical economics and its concept of general equilibrium; Paul Samuelson's "Economics" refers six times to Smith's "invisible hand". To emphasise this connection, Samuelson[91] quotes Smith's "invisible hand" statement substituting "general interest" for "public interest". Samuelson[92] concludes: "Smith was unable to prove the essence of his invisible-hand doctrine. Indeed, until the 1940s, no one knew how to prove, even to state properly, the kernel of truth in this proposition about perfectly competitive market."


1922 printing of An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, edited by Edwin Cannan
Conversely, classical economists see in Smith's first sentences his programme to promote "The Wealth of Nations". Using the physiocratical concept of the economy as a circular process, to secure growth the inputs of Period 2 must exceed the inputs of Period 1. Therefore, those outputs of Period 1 which are not used or usable as inputs of Period 2 are regarded as unproductive labour, as they do not contribute to growth. This is what Smith had heard in France from, among others, François Quesnay, whose ideas Smith was so impressed by that he might have dedicated The Wealth of Nations to him had he not died beforehand.[93][94] To this French insight that unproductive labour should be reduced to use labour more productively, Smith added his own proposal, that productive labour should be made even more productive by deepening the division of labour.[95] Smith argued that deepening the division of labour under competition leads to greater productivity, which leads to lower prices and thus an increasing standard of living—"general plenty" and "universal opulence"—for all. Extended markets and increased production lead to the continuous reorganisation of production and the invention of new ways of producing, which in turn lead to further increased production, lower prices, and improved standards of living. Smith's central message is, therefore, that under dynamic competition, a growth machine secures "The Wealth of Nations". Smith's argument predicted Britain's evolution as the workshop of the world, underselling and outproducing all its competitors. The opening sentences of the "Wealth of Nations" summarise this policy:

The annual labour of every nation is the fund which originally supplies it with all the necessaries and conveniences of life which it annually consumes ... . [T]his produce ... bears a greater or smaller proportion to the number of those who are to consume it ... .[B]ut this proportion must in every nation be regulated by two different circumstances;

first, by the skill, dexterity, and judgement with which its labour is generally applied; and,
secondly, by the proportion between the number of those who are employed in useful labour, and that of those who are not so employed [emphasis added].[96]
However, Smith added that the "abundance or scantiness of this supply too seems to depend more upon the former of those two circumstances than upon the latter."[97]

In The Wealth of Nations Smith states four maxims of taxation: (1) equality (people must contribute to the support of the government in proportion to their abilities), (2) certainty (the time, manner and quantity of tax imposed must be certain, transparent and not arbitrary), (3) convenience for taxpayers, and (4) economy in tax collection.[98]: 2  According to Smith, "It is not very unreasonable that the rich should contribute to the public expense, not only in proportion to their revenue, but something more in that proportion".[98]: 98 

Smith wrote that a government is duty-bound to provide public services that "support the whole of society" like provide public education, transportation, national defence, a justice system, public safety, and public infrastructure to support commerce.[98]: 163 

Other works
A burial
Smith's burial place in Canongate Kirkyard
Shortly before his death, Smith had nearly all his manuscripts destroyed. In his last years, he seemed to have been planning two major treatises, one on the theory and history of law and one on the sciences and arts. The posthumously published Essays on Philosophical Subjects, a history of astronomy down to Smith's own era, plus some thoughts on ancient physics and metaphysics, probably contain parts of what would have been the latter treatise. Lectures on Jurisprudence were notes taken from Smith's early lectures, plus an early draft of The Wealth of Nations, published as part of the 1976 Glasgow Edition of the works and correspondence of Smith. Other works, including some published posthumously, include Lectures on Justice, Police, Revenue, and Arms (1763) (first published in 1896); and Essays on Philosophical Subjects (1795).[99]

Legacy
In economics and moral philosophy
The Wealth of Nations was a precursor to the modern academic discipline of economics. In this and other works, Smith expounded how rational self-interest and competition can lead to economic prosperity. Smith was controversial in his own day and his general approach and writing style were often satirised by Tory writers in the moralising tradition of Hogarth and Swift, as a discussion at the University of Winchester suggests.[100] In 2005 The Wealth of Nations was named among the 100 Best Scottish Books of all time.[101]

In light of the arguments put forward by Smith and other economic theorists in Britain, academic belief in mercantilism began to decline in Britain in the late 18th century. During the Industrial Revolution, Britain embraced free trade and Smith's laissez-faire economics, and via the British Empire, used its power to spread a broadly liberal economic model around the world, characterised by open markets, and relatively barrier-free domestic and international trade.[102]

George Stigler attributes to Smith "the most important substantive proposition in all of economics". It is that, under competition, owners of resources (for example labour, land, and capital) will use them most profitably, resulting in an equal rate of return in equilibrium for all uses, adjusted for apparent differences arising from such factors as training, trust, hardship, and unemployment.[103]

Paul Samuelson finds in Smith's pluralist use of supply and demand as applied to wages, rents, and profit a valid and valuable anticipation of the general equilibrium modelling of Léon Walras a century later. Smith's allowance for wage increases in the short and intermediate term from capital accumulation and invention contrasted with Thomas Robert Malthus, David Ricardo, and Karl Marx in their propounding a rigid subsistence–wage theory of labour supply.[104]

Joseph Schumpeter criticised Smith for a lack of technical rigour, yet he argued that this enabled Smith's writings to appeal to wider audiences: "His very limitation made for success. Had he been more brilliant, he would not have been taken so seriously. Had he dug more deeply, had he unearthed more recondite truth, had he used more difficult and ingenious methods, he would not have been understood. But he had no such ambitions; in fact he disliked whatever went beyond plain common sense. He never moved above the heads of even the dullest readers. He led them on gently, encouraging them by trivialities and homely observations, making them feel comfortable all along."[105]

Classical economists presented competing theories to those of Smith, termed the "labour theory of value". Later Marxian economics descending from classical economics also use Smith's labour theories, in part. The first volume of Marx's major work, Das Kapital, was published in German in 1867. In it Marx focused on the labour theory of value and what he considered to be the exploitation of labour by capital.[106][107] The labour theory of value held that the value of a thing was determined by the labour that went into its production. This contrasts with the modern contention of neoclassical economics, that the value of a thing is determined by what one is willing to give up to obtain the thing. Frédéric Bastiat advocated a similar theory, that the value of a thing or service was its utility, or usefulness, to others. One example he used was of one finding a large diamond after having done little labor; yet it was still valuable because others wanted it.

A brown building
The Adam Smith Theatre in Kirkcaldy
The body of theory later termed "neoclassical economics" or "marginalism" formed from about 1870 to 1910. The term "economics" was popularised by such neoclassical economists as Alfred Marshall as a concise synonym for "economic science" and a substitute for the earlier, broader term "political economy" used by Smith.[108][109] This corresponded to the influence on the subject of mathematical methods used in the natural sciences.[110] Neoclassical economics systematised supply and demand as joint determinants of price and quantity in market equilibrium, affecting both the allocation of output and the distribution of income. It dispensed with the labour theory of value of which Smith was most famously identified with in classical economics, in favour of a marginal utility theory of value on the demand side and a more general theory of costs on the supply side.[111]

The bicentennial anniversary of the publication of The Wealth of Nations was celebrated in 1976, resulting in increased interest for The Theory of Moral Sentiments and his other works throughout academia. After 1976 Smith was more likely to be represented as the author of both The Wealth of Nations and The Theory of Moral Sentiments, and thereby as the founder of a moral philosophy and the science of economics. His homo economicus or "economic man" was also more often represented as a moral person. Additionally, economists David Levy and Sandra Peart in "The Secret History of the Dismal Science" point to his opposition to hierarchy and beliefs in equality, including racial equality, and provide additional support for those who point to Smith's opposition to slavery, colonialism, and empire. Emphasised also are Smith's statements of the need for high wages for the poor, and the efforts to keep wages low. In The "Vanity of the Philosopher: From Equality to Hierarchy in Postclassical Economics", Peart and Levy also cite Smith's view that a common street porter was not intellectually inferior to a philosopher,[112] and point to the need for greater appreciation of the public views in discussions of science and other subjects now considered to be technical. They also cite Smith's opposition to the often expressed view that science is superior to common sense.[113]

Smith also explained the relationship between growth of private property and civil government:

Men may live together in society with some tolerable degree of security, though there is no civil magistrate to protect them from the injustice of those passions. But avarice and ambition in the rich, in the poor the hatred of labour and the love of present ease and enjoyment, are the passions which prompt to invade property, passions much more steady in their operation, and much more universal in their influence. Wherever there is great property there is great inequality. For one very rich man there must be at least five hundred poor, and the affluence of the few supposes the indigence of the many. The affluence of the rich excites the indignation of the poor, who are often both driven by want, and prompted by envy, to invade his possessions. It is only under the shelter of the civil magistrate that the owner of that valuable property, which is acquired by the labour of many years, or perhaps of many successive generations, can sleep a single night in security. He is at all times surrounded by unknown enemies, whom, though he never provoked, he can never appease, and from whose injustice he can be protected only by the powerful arm of the civil magistrate continually held up to chastise it. The acquisition of valuable and extensive property, therefore, necessarily requires the establishment of civil government. Where there is no property, or at least none that exceeds the value of two or three days' labour, civil government is not so necessary. Civil government supposes a certain subordination. But as the necessity of civil government gradually grows up with the acquisition of valuable property, so the principal causes which naturally introduce subordination gradually grow up with the growth of that valuable property. (...) Men of inferior wealth combine to defend those of superior wealth in the possession of their property, in order that men of superior wealth may combine to defend them in the possession of theirs. All the inferior shepherds and herdsmen feel that the security of their own herds and flocks depends upon the security of those of the great shepherd or herdsman; that the maintenance of their lesser authority depends upon that of his greater authority, and that upon their subordination to him depends his power of keeping their inferiors in subordination to them. They constitute a sort of little nobility, who feel themselves interested to defend the property and to support the authority of their own little sovereign in order that he may be able to defend their property and to support their authority. Civil government, so far as it is instituted for the security of property, is in reality instituted for the defence of the rich against the poor, or of those who have some property against those who have none at all.[114]

In British imperial debates
Smith opposed empire. He challenged ideas that colonies were key to British prosperity and power. He rejected that other cultures, such as China and India, were culturally and developmentally inferior to Europe. While he favoured "commercial society", he did not support radical social change and the imposition of commercial society on other societies. He proposed that colonies be given independence or that full political rights be extended to colonial subjects.[115]

Smith's chapter on colonies, in turn, would help shape British imperial debates from the mid-19th century onward. The Wealth of Nations would become an ambiguous text regarding the imperial question. In his chapter on colonies, Smith pondered how to solve the crisis developing across the Atlantic among the empire's 13 American colonies. He offered two different proposals for easing tensions. The first proposal called for giving the colonies their independence, and by thus parting on a friendly basis, Britain would be able to develop and maintain a free-trade relationship with them, and possibly even an informal military alliance. Smith's second proposal called for a theoretical imperial federation that would bring the colonies and the metropole closer together through an imperial parliamentary system and imperial free trade.[116]

Smith's most prominent disciple in 19th-century Britain, the peace-advocate Richard Cobden, preferred the first proposal. Cobden would lead the Anti-Corn Law League in overturning the Corn Laws in 1846, shifting Britain to a policy of free trade and empire "on the cheap" for decades to come. This hands-off approach toward the British Empire would become known as Cobdenism or the Manchester School.[117] By the turn of the century, however, advocates of Smith's second proposal such as Joseph Shield Nicholson would become ever more vocal in opposing Cobdenism, calling instead for imperial federation.[118] As Marc-William Palen notes: "On the one hand, Adam Smith's late nineteenth and early twentieth-century Cobdenite adherents used his theories to argue for gradual imperial devolution and empire 'on the cheap'. On the other, various proponents of imperial federation throughout the British World sought to use Smith's theories to overturn the predominant Cobdenite hands-off imperial approach and instead, with a firm grip, bring the empire closer than ever before."[119] Smith's ideas thus played an important part in subsequent debates over the British Empire.

Portraits, monuments, and banknotes

A statue of Smith on High Street in Edinburgh, erected through private donations organised by the Adam Smith Institute
Smith has been commemorated in the UK on banknotes printed by two different banks; his portrait has appeared since 1981 on the £50 notes issued by the Clydesdale Bank in Scotland,[120][121] and in March 2007 Smith's image also appeared on the new series of £20 notes issued by the Bank of England, making him the first Scotsman to feature on an English banknote.[122]


A statue of Smith built in 1867–1870 at the old headquarters of the University of London, 6 Burlington Gardens
Between 1867 and 1870, a statue of Smith was built into the outside wall of 6 Burlington Gardens, then the headquarters of the University of London (now home to the Royal Academy of Arts).[123] A large-scale memorial of Smith by Alexander Stoddart was unveiled on 4 July 2008 in Edinburgh. It is a 10-foot (3.0 m)-tall bronze sculpture and it stands above the Royal Mile outside St Giles' Cathedral in Parliament Square, near the Mercat cross.[124] Sculptor Jim Sanborn has created multiple pieces which feature Smith's work. At Central Connecticut State University is Circulating Capital, a tall cylinder which features an extract from The Wealth of Nations on the lower half, and on the upper half, some of the same text, but represented in binary code.[125] At the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, outside the Belk College of Business Administration, is Adam Smith's Spinning Top.[126][127] Another Smith sculpture is at Cleveland State University.[128] Smith also appears as the narrator in the 2013 play The Low Road, centred on a proponent on laissez-faire economics in the late 18th century, but dealing obliquely with the 2008 financial crisis and the Great Recession; he was portrayed by Bill Paterson in the premiere production at the Royal Court Theatre in London.[129]

A bust of Smith is in the Hall of Heroes of the National Wallace Monument in Stirling. Five paving stones, displaying quotations from Smith's works, were unveiled in December 2023 on High Street in Glasgow. They were commissioned by the University of Glasgow to mark the 300th anniversary of Smith's birth.[130]

Panmure House
Adam Smith resided at Panmure House from 1778 to 1790. In 2008, the house was purchased by the Edinburgh Business School at Heriot-Watt University and funds were raised for its restoration.[131][132] In 2018 it was formally opened as a study centre in Smith's honour.[133]

As a symbol of free-market economics
Part of a series on
Capitalism
Concepts
Systems
Theories
Ideologies
Origins
Development
Intellectuals
PettyCantillonSmithBenthamMalthusSayRicardoMillHamiltonBastiatMarshallParetoBawerkWebervon MisesSchumpeterHayekRandCoaseStiglerFriedmanBuchananRothbardSowellBeckerLucasLafferBlockHoppe
Related topics
icon Capitalism portal
icon Business portal
icon Economics portal
vte
Smith has been celebrated by advocates of free-market policies as the founder of free-market economics, a view reflected in the naming of bodies such as the Adam Smith Institute in London, multiple entities known as the "Adam Smith Society", including an historical Italian organisation,[134] and the US-based Adam Smith Society,[135][136] and the Australian Adam Smith Club,[137] and in terms such as the Adam Smith necktie.[138]

Alan Greenspan, former chair of the American central bank, the Federal Reserve, argues that, while Smith did not coin the term laissez-faire, "it was left to Adam Smith to identify the more-general set of principles that brought conceptual clarity to the seeming chaos of market transactions." Greenspan continues that The Wealth of Nations was "one of the great achievements in human intellectual history."[139] P. J. O'Rourke describes Smith as the "founder of free market economics."[140]

The Nobel laureate economist Milton Friedman believed in 1976, 200 years after the publishing of The Wealth of Nations, that the work of Adam Smith was, "...far more immediately relevant today than he was at the Centennial of The Wealth of Nations in 1876."[141]

Other writers have argued that Smith's support for laissez-faire (which in French means leave alone) has been overstated. Herbert Stein wrote that the people who "wear an Adam Smith necktie" do it to "make a statement of their devotion to the idea of free markets and limited government", and that this misrepresents Smith's ideas. Stein writes that Smith "was not pure or doctrinaire about this idea. He viewed government intervention in the market with great skepticism...yet he was prepared to accept or propose qualifications to that policy in the specific cases where he judged that their net effect would be beneficial and would not undermine the basically free character of the system. He did not wear the Adam Smith necktie." In Stein's reading, The Wealth of Nations could justify the Food and Drug Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, mandatory employer health benefits, environmentalism, and "discriminatory taxation to deter improper or luxurious behavior".[142]

Similarly, Vivienne Brown stated in The Economic Journal that in the 20th-century United States, supporters of Reaganomics, The Wall Street Journal, and other similar sources have spread among the general public a partial and misleading vision of Smith, portraying him as an "extreme dogmatic defender of laissez-faire capitalism and supply-side economics".[143] In fact, The Wealth of Nations includes the following statement on the payment of taxes:

The subjects of every state ought to contribute towards the support of the government, as nearly as possible, in proportion to their respective abilities; that is, in proportion to the revenue which they respectively enjoy under the protection of the state.[144]

Some commentators have argued that Smith's works show support for a progressive, not flat, income tax and that he specifically named taxes that he thought should be required by the state, among them luxury-goods taxes and tax on rent.[145] Yet Smith argued for the "impossibility of taxing the people, in proportion to their economic revenue, by any capitation".[146] Smith argued that taxes should principally go toward protecting "justice" and "certain publick institutions" that were necessary for the benefit of all of society, which could not be adequately provided by private enterprise.[147]

Additionally, Smith outlined the proper expenses of the government in The Wealth of Nations, Book V, Ch. I. Included in his requirements of a government is to enforce contracts and provide justice system, grant patents and copy rights, provide public goods such as infrastructure, provide national defence, and regulate banking. The role of the government was to provide goods "of such a nature that the profit could never repay the expense to any individual" such as roads, bridges, canals, and harbours. He also encouraged invention and new ideas through his patent enforcement and support of infant industry monopolies. He supported partial public subsidies for elementary education, and he believed that competition among religious institutions would provide general benefit to the society. In such cases, Smith argued for local rather than centralised control: "Even those publick works which are of such a nature that they cannot afford any revenue for maintaining themselves ... are always better maintained by a local or provincial revenue, under the management of a local and provincial administration, than by the general revenue of the state" (Wealth of Nations, V.i.d.18). Finally, he outlined how the government should support the dignity of the monarch or chief magistrate, such that they are equal or above the public in fashion. He further stated that monarchs should be provided for in a greater fashion than magistrates of a republic because "we naturally expect more splendor in the court of a king than in the mansion-house of a doge".[148] In addition, he allowed that in some specific circumstances, retaliatory tariffs may be beneficial:

The recovery of a great foreign market will generally more than compensate the transitory inconvenience of paying dearer during a short time for some sorts of goods.[149]

However, he added that in general, a retaliatory tariff "seems a bad method of compensating the injury done to certain classes of our people, to do another injury ourselves, not only to those classes, but to almost all the other classes of them".[150]

Economic historians such as Jacob Viner regard Smith as a strong advocate of free markets and limited government (what Smith called "natural liberty"), but not as a dogmatic supporter of laissez-faire.[151]

The economist Daniel Klein believes using the term "free-market economics" or "free-market economist" to identify the ideas of Smith is too general and slightly misleading. Klein offers six characteristics central to the identity of Smith's economic thought and argues that a new name is needed to give a more accurate depiction of the "Smithian" identity.[152][153] The economist David Ricardo set straight some of the misunderstandings about Smith's thoughts on free market. Many continue to fall victim to the thinking that Smith was a free-market economist without exception, though he was not. Ricardo pointed out that Smith was in support of helping infant industries. Smith believed that the government should subsidise newly formed industry, but he did fear that when the infant industry grew into adulthood, it would be unwilling to surrender the government help.[154] Smith also supported tariffs on imported goods to counteract an internal tax on the same good. Smith also fell to pressure in supporting some tariffs in support for national defence.[154]

Some have also argued, Emma Rothschild among them, that Smith would have supported a minimum wage,[155] although no direct textual evidence supports the claim. Smith wrote:

The price of labour, it must be observed, cannot be ascertained very accurately anywhere, different prices being often paid at the same place and for the same sort of labour, not only according to the different abilities of the workmen, but according to the easiness or hardness of the masters. Where wages are not regulated by law, all that we can pretend to determine is what are the most usual; and experience seems to show that law can never regulate them properly, though it has often pretended to do so. (The Wealth of Nations, Book 1, Chapter 8)

However, Smith also noted, to the contrary, the existence of an imbalanced inequality of bargaining power:[156]

A landlord, a farmer, a master manufacturer, a merchant, though they did not employ a single workman, could generally live a year or two upon the stocks which they have already acquired. Many workmen could not subsist a week, few could subsist a month, and scarce any a year without employment. In the long run, the workman may be as necessary to his master as his master is to him, but the necessity is not so immediate.

See also
icon	Capitalism portal
icon	Economics portal
icon	Liberalism portal
diagram	Libertarianism portal
	Philosophy portal
icon	Politics portal
flag	Scotland portal
Critique of political economy
Organizational capital
List of abolitionist forerunners
List of Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts
People on Scottish banknotes
Adam Smith's America
Anne Robert Jacques Turgot
References
Informational notes
 Smith was described as a North Briton and Scot.[2]
 In Life of Adam Smith, Rae writes: "In his fourth year, while on a visit to his grandfather's house at Strathendry on the banks of the Leven, [Smith] was stolen by a passing band of gypsies, and for a time could not be found. But presently a gentleman arrived who had met a Romani woman a few miles down the road carrying a child that was crying piteously. Scouts were immediately dispatched in the direction indicated, and they came upon the woman in Leslie wood. As soon as she saw them she threw her burden down and escaped, and the child was brought back to his mother. [Smith] would have made, I fear, a poor gypsy."[12]
 During the reign of Louis XIV, the population shrunk by 4 million and agricultural productivity was reduced by one-third while the taxes had increased. Cusminsky, Rosa, de Cendrero, 1967, Los Fisiócratas, Buenos Aires: Centro Editor de América Latina, p. 6
 1701–1714 War of the Spanish Succession, 1688–1697 War of the Grand Alliance, 1672–1678 Franco-Dutch War, 1667–1668 War of Devolution, 1618–1648 Thirty Years' War
 The 6 editions of The Theory of Moral Sentiments were published in 1759, 1761, 1767, 1774, 1781, and 1790, respectively.[74]
Citations
 "Adam Smith (1723–1790)". BBC. Archived from the original on 15 March 2007. Retrieved 20 December 2019. Adam Smith's exact date of birth is unknown, but he was baptised on 5 June 1723.
 Williams, Gwydion M. (2000). Adam Smith, Wealth Without Nations. London: Athol Books. p. 59. ISBN 978-0850340846. Archived from the original on 19 July 2021. Retrieved 24 August 2020.
 "BBC – History – Scottish History". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 10 April 2001. Retrieved 20 December 2019.
 —Brown, Vivienne (5 December 2008). "Mere Inventions of the Imagination': A Survey of Recent Literature on Adam Smith". Cambridge University Press. 13 (2): 281–312. doi:10.1017/S0266267100004521. ISSN 0266-2671. S2CID 145093382. Archived from the original on 21 July 2020. Retrieved 20 July 2020.
—Berry, Christopher J. (2018). Adam Smith Very Short Introductions Series. Oxford University Press. p. 101. ISBN 978-0198784456. Archived from the original on 19 July 2021. Retrieved 3 October 2020.
—Sharma, Rakesh. "Adam Smith: The Father of Economics". Investopedia. Archived from the original on 10 September 2016. Retrieved 20 February 2019.
 —"Adam Smith: Father of Capitalism". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 20 November 2017. Retrieved 20 February 2019.
—Bassiry, G. R.; Jones, Marc (1993). "Adam Smith and the ethics of contemporary capitalism". Journal of Business Ethics. 12 (1026): 621–627. doi:10.1007/BF01845899. S2CID 51746709.
—Newbert, Scott L. (30 November 2017). "Lessons on social enterprise from the father of capitalism: A dialectical analysis of Adam Smith". Academy of Management Journal. 2016 (1): 12046. doi:10.5465/ambpp.2016.12046abstract. ISSN 2151-6561.
—Rasmussen, Dennis C. (2017). The Infidel and the Professor: David Hume, Adam Smith, and the Friendship That Shaped Modern Thought. Princeton University Press. p. 12. ISBN 978-1400888467.
 "Absolute Advantage – Ability to Produce More than Anyone Else". Corporate Finance Institute. Archived from the original on 20 February 2019. Retrieved 20 February 2019.
 "Adam Smith: Biography on Undiscovered Scotland". Undiscoveredscotland.co.uk. Archived from the original on 22 July 2019. Retrieved 30 July 2019.
 John, McMurray (19 March 2017). "Capitalism's 'Founding Father' Often Quoted, Frequently Misconstrued". Investor's Business Daily. Archived from the original on 19 July 2021. Retrieved 31 May 2019.
 Rae 1895, p. 1
 Bussing-Burks 2003, pp. 38–39
 Buchan 2006, p. 12
 Rae 1895, p. 5
 "Fife Place-name Data :: Strathenry". fife-placenames.glasgow.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 19 July 2021. Retrieved 11 November 2020.
 Bussing-Burks 2003, p. 39
 Buchan 2006, p. 22
 Bussing-Burks 2003, p. 41
 Rae 1895, p. 24
 Buchholz 1999, p. 12
 Introductory Economics. New Age Publishers. 2006. p. 4. ISBN 8122418309.
 Rae 1895, p. 22
 Rae 1895, pp. 24–25
 Bussing-Burks 2003, p. 42
 Buchan 2006, p. 29
 "Adam Smith". Biography. Archived from the original on 19 July 2021. Retrieved 30 July 2019.
 Rae 1895, p. 30
 Smith, A. ([1762] 1985). Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres [1762]. vol. IV of the Glasgow Edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith (Indianapolis: Liberty Fund, 1984). Retrieved 16 February 2012
 Bussing-Burks 2003, p. 43
 Winch, Donald (September 2004). "Smith, Adam (bap. 1723, d. 1790)". Dictionary of National Biography. Oxford University Press.
 Rae 1895, p. 42
 Fleischacker, Samuel (2019). Being Me Being You: Adam Smith and Empathy. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0226661896.
 Buchholz 1999, p. 15
 Buchan 2006, p. 67
 Buchholz 1999, p. 13
 "MyGlasgow – Archive Services – Exhibitions – Adam Smith in Glasgow – Photo Gallery – Honorary degree". University of Glasgow. Archived from the original on 6 November 2018. Retrieved 6 November 2018.
 Buchholz 1999, p. 16
 Buchholz 1999, pp. 16–17
 Buchholz 1999, p. 17
 Smith, A., 1976, The Wealth of Nations edited by R. H. Campbell and A. S. Skinner, The Glasgow edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith, vol. 2b, p. 678.
 Buchholz 1999, p. 18
 Buchan 2006, p. 90
 Dr James Currie to Thomas Creevey, 24 February 1793, Lpool RO, Currie MS 920 CUR
 Smith was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society on 21 May 1767, but was not admitted until 27 May 1773. See Mossner, Ernest Campbell; Ross, Ian Simpson, eds. (1987). The Correspondence of Adam Smith (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Liberty Fund. p. 131. ISBN 0198285701 – via Internet Archive.; Ross, Ian Simpson (2010). The Life of Adam Smith (2nd ed.). Oxford: Clarendon Press. p. 266. ISBN 978-0199550036 – via Internet Archive.
 Buchan 2006, p. 89
 Buchholz 1999, p. 19
 Durant, Will; Durant, Ariel (1967). The Story of Civilization: Rousseau and Revolution. MJF Books. ISBN 1567310214.
 Buchan 2006, p. 128
 Buchan 2006, p. 133
 Buchan 2006, p. 137
 Buchan 2006, p. 145
 Bussing-Burks 2003, p. 53
 Buchan 2006, p. 25
 Buchan 2006, p. 88
 Bonar 1894, p. xiv.
 Buchan 2006, p. 11
 Buchan 2006, p. 134
 Rae 1895, p. 262
 Skousen 2001, p. 32
 Buchholz 1999, p. 14
 Boswell's Life of Samuel Johnson, 1780.
 Ross 2010, p. 330
 Stewart, Dugald (1853). The Works of Adam Smith: With An Account of His Life and Writings. London: Henry G. Bohn. lxix. OCLC 3226570. Archived from the original on 13 June 2020. Retrieved 13 May 2020.
 Rae 1895, pp. 376–377
 Bonar 1894, p. xxi
 Ross 1995, p. 15
 "Times obituary of Adam Smith". The Times. 24 July 1790. Archived from the original on 10 May 2013. Retrieved 24 October 2012.
 Coase 1976, pp. 529–546
 Coase 1976, p. 538
 Hill, L. (2001). "The hidden theology of Adam Smith". The European Journal of the History of Economic Thought. 8: 1–29. doi:10.1080/713765225. S2CID 154571991.
 Long, Brendan (2006), Brown, Vivienne (ed.), "Adam Smith's natural theology of society", The Adam Smith Review, vol. 2, Routledge, doi:10.4324/9780203966365, ISBN 978-0203966365, retrieved 31 May 2022
 Kennedy, Gavin (2011). "The Hidden Adam Smith In His Alleged Theology". Journal of the History of Economic Thought. 33 (3): 385–402. doi:10.1017/S1053837211000204. ISSN 1469-9656. S2CID 154779976.
 "Hume on Religion". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 15 September 2018. Retrieved 26 May 2008.
 Eric Schliesser (2003). "The Obituary of a Vain Philosopher: Adam Smith's Reflections on Hume's Life" (PDF). Hume Studies. 29 (2): 327–362. doi:10.1353/hms.2003.a383343. S2CID 170901056. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 June 2012. Retrieved 27 May 2012.
 "Andrew Millar Project, University of Edinburgh". millar-project.ed.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 8 June 2016. Retrieved 3 June 2016.
 Adam Smith, Glasgow Edition of the Works and Correspondence Vol. 1 The Theory of Moral Sentiments [1759].
 Rae 1895
 Falkner, Robert (1997). "Biography of Smith". Liberal Democrat History Group. Archived from the original on 11 June 2008. Retrieved 14 May 2008.
 Smith 2002, p. xv
 Robbins, Lionel. A History of Economic Thought. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1998.
 Van Schie, Patrick. "The Theory of Moral Sentiments". European Liberal Forum. Retrieved 2 August 2022.
 Otteson, James R. 2002, Adam Smith's Marketplace of Life. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2002.
 Ekelund, R. & Hebert, R. 2007, A History of Economic Theory and Method 5th ed. Waveland Press, United States, p. 105.
 Smith, A., 1976, The Wealth of Nations edited by R. H. Campbell and A. S. Skinner, The Glasgow edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith, vol. 2a, p. 456.
 Smith, A., 1980, The Glasgow edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith, vol. 3, p. 49, edited by W. P. D. Wightman and J. C. Bryce, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
 Smith, A., 1976, The Glasgow edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith, vol. 1, pp. 184–185, edited by D. D. Raphael and A. L. Macfie, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
 Smith, A., 1976, The Glasgow edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith, vol. 2a, p. 456, edited by R. H. Cambell and A. S. Skinner, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
 Smith, A., 1976, The Glasgow edition, vol. 2a, pp. 26–27.
 Mandeville, B., 1724, The Fable of the Bees, London: Tonson.
 Smith, A., 1976, The Glasgow edition, vol. 2a, pp. 145, 158.
 Smith, A., 1976, The Glasgow edition, vol. 2a, p. 79.
 Gopnik, Adam (10 October 2010). "Market Man". The New Yorker. No. 18 October 2010. p. 82. Archived from the original on 5 March 2011. Retrieved 27 April 2011.
 Samuelson, P. A./Nordhaus, William D., 1989, Economics, 13th ed., N.Y. et al.: McGraw-Hill, p. 825.
 Samuelson, P. A./Nordhaus, William D., 1989, idem, p. 825.
 Buchan 2006, p. 80
 Stewart, D., 1799, Essays on Philosophical Subjects, to which is prefixed An Account of the Life and Writings of the Author by Dugald Stewart, F.R.S.E., Basil; from the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Read by Mr. Stewart, 21 January, and 18 March 1793; in: The Glasgow edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith, 1982, vol. 3, pp. 304 ff.
 Bertholet, Auguste (2021). "Constant, Sismondi et la Pologne". Annales Benjamin Constant. 46: 80–81.
 Smith, A., 1976, vol. 2a, p. 10, idem
 Smith, A., 1976, vol. 1, p. 10, para. 4
 Lin, Shuanglin (2022). China's Public Finance: Reforms, Challenges, and Options. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1009099028.
 The Glasgow edition of the Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith, 1982, 6 volumes
 "Adam Smith – Jonathan Swift". University of Winchester. Archived from the original on 28 November 2009. Retrieved 11 February 2010.
 100 Best Scottish Books, Adam Smith Archived 20 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved 31 January 2012
 L.Seabrooke (2006). "Global Standards of Market Civilization". p. 192. Taylor & Francis 2006
 Stigler, George J. (1976). "The Successes and Failures of Professor Smith", Journal of Political Economy, 84(6), pp. 1199–1213 [1202]. Also published as Selected Papers, No. 50 (PDF)[permanent dead link], Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago.
 Samuelson, Paul A. (1977). "A Modern Theorist's Vindication of Adam Smith", American Economic Review, 67(1), p. 42. Reprinted in J.C. Wood, ed., Adam Smith: Critical Assessments, pp. 498–509. Preview. Archived 19 March 2015 at the Wayback Machine
 Schumpeter History of Economic Analysis. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 185.
 Roemer, J.E. (1987). "Marxian Value Analysis". The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics, v. 3, 383.
 Mandel, Ernest (1987). "Marx, Karl Heinrich", The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics v. 3, pp. 372, 376.
 Marshall, Alfred; Marshall, Mary Paley (1879). The Economics of Industry. Macmillan. p. 2. ISBN 978-1855065475. Archived from the original on 13 June 2020. Retrieved 13 May 2020.
 Jevons, W. Stanley (1879). The Theory of Political Economy (2nd ed.). p. xiv. Archived from the original on 13 June 2020. Retrieved 13 May 2020.
 Clark, B. (1998). Political-economy: A comparative approach, 2nd ed., Westport, CT: Praeger. p. 32.
 Campus, Antonietta (1987). "Marginalist Economics", The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics, v. 3, p. 320
 Smith 1977, §Book I, Chapter 2
 "The Vanity of the Philosopher: From Equality to Hierarchy" in Postclassical Economics [1] Archived 4 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine
 The Wealth of Nations, Book 5, Chapter 1, Part 2
 Pitts, Jennifer (2005). A Turn to Empire: The Rise of Imperial Liberalism in Britain and France. Princeton University Press. pp. 39–58. ISBN 978-1400826636.
 E.A. Benians, 'Adam Smith's project of an empire', Cambridge Historical Journal 1 (1925): 249–283
 Anthony Howe, Free trade and liberal England, 1846–1946 (Oxford, 1997)
 J. Shield Nicholson, A project of empire: a critical study of the economics of imperialism, with special reference to the ideas of Adam Smith (London, 1909)
 Marc-William Palen, "Adam Smith as Advocate of Empire, c. 1870–1932", Archived 22 May 2015 at the Wayback Machine Historical Journal 57: 1 (March 2014): 179–198.
 "Clydesdale 50 Pounds, 1981". Ron Wise's Banknoteworld. Archived from the original on 30 October 2008. Retrieved 15 October 2008.
 "Current Banknotes : Clydesdale Bank". The Committee of Scottish Clearing Bankers. Archived from the original on 3 October 2008. Retrieved 15 October 2008.
 "Smith replaces Elgar on £20 note". BBC. 29 October 2006. Archived from the original on 24 March 2007. Retrieved 14 May 2008.
 "Mid-Georgian Portraits Catalogue — Adam Smith (1723–1790), Political economist". National Portrait Gallery. Retrieved 13 February 2025.
 Blackley, Michael (26 September 2007). "Adam Smith sculpture to tower over Royal Mile". Edinburgh Evening News.
 Fillo, Maryellen (13 March 2001). "CCSU welcomes a new kid on the block". The Hartford Courant.
 Kelley, Pam (20 May 1997). "Piece at UNCC is a puzzle for Charlotte, artist says". The Charlotte Observer.
 Shaw-Eagle, Joanna (1 June 1997). "Artist sheds new light on sculpture". The Washington Times.
 "Adam Smith's Spinning Top". Ohio Outdoor Sculpture Inventory. Archived from the original on 5 February 2005. Retrieved 24 May 2008.
 Paul Taylor (28 March 2013). "The Low Road, Royal Court, London - Reviews - Theatre & Dance". The Independent. Archived from the original on 18 June 2022. Retrieved 13 February 2025.
 Wilson, Caroline (4 December 2023). "University of Glasgow honours famous graduate at historic site". The Herald. p. 11. Retrieved 5 December 2023.
 "The restoration of Panmure House". Archived from the original on 22 January 2012.
 "Adam Smith's Home Gets Business School Revival". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on 24 June 2013. Retrieved 5 March 2017.
 Stephen, Phyllis (9 December 2018). "Panmure House reopened for the people". The Edinburgh Reporter. Archived from the original on 5 December 2023. Retrieved 5 December 2023.
 "The Adam Smith Society". The Adam Smith Society. Archived from the original on 21 July 2007. Retrieved 24 May 2008.
 Choi, Amy (4 March 2014). "Defying Skeptics, Some Business Schools Double Down on Capitalism". Bloomberg Business News. Archived from the original on 26 February 2015. Retrieved 24 February 2015.
 "Who We Are: The Adam Smith Society". Adam Smith Society. April 2016. Archived from the original on 9 February 2019. Retrieved 2 February 2019.
 "The Australian Adam Smith Club". Adam Smith Club. Archived from the original on 9 May 2010. Retrieved 12 October 2008.
 Levy, David (June 1992). "Interview with Milton Friedman". Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Archived from the original on 3 September 2009. Retrieved 1 September 2008.
 "FRB: Speech, Greenspan – Adam Smith – 6 February 2005". Archived from the original on 12 May 2008. Retrieved 31 May 2008.
 "Adam Smith: Web Junkie". Forbes. 5 July 2007. Archived from the original on 20 May 2008. Retrieved 10 June 2008.
 "From 1976: Adam Smith's Relevance for 1976". The University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
 Stein, Herbert (6 April 1994). "Board of Contributors: Remembering Adam Smith". The Wall Street Journal Asia: A14.
 Brown, Vivienne; Pack, Spencer J.; Werhane, Patricia H. (January 1993). "Untitled review of 'Capitalism as a Moral System: Adam Smith's Critique of the Free Market Economy' and 'Adam Smith and his Legacy for Modern Capitalism'". The Economic Journal. 103 (416): 230–232. doi:10.2307/2234351. JSTOR 2234351.
 Smith 1977, bk. V, ch. 2
 "Market Man". The New Yorker. 18 October 2010. Archived from the original on 28 May 2014. Retrieved 20 February 2020.
 The Wealth of Nations, V.ii.k.1
 The Wealth of Nations, IV.ix.51
 Smith 1977, bk. V
 Smith, A., 1976, The Glasgow edition, vol. 2a, p. 468.
 The Wealth of Nations, IV.ii.39
 Viner, Jacob (April 1927). "Adam Smith and Laissez-faire". The Journal of Political Economy. 35 (2): 198–232. doi:10.1086/253837. JSTOR 1823421. S2CID 154539413.
 Klein, Daniel B. (2008). "Toward a Public and Professional Identity for Our Economics". Econ Journal Watch. 5 (3): 358–372. Archived from the original on 28 December 2013. Retrieved 10 February 2010.
 Klein, Daniel B. (2009). "Desperately Seeking Smithians: Responses to the Questionnaire about Building an Identity". Econ Journal Watch. 6 (1): 113–180. Archived from the original on 28 December 2013. Retrieved 10 February 2010.
 Buchholz, Todd (December 1990). pp. 38–39.
 Martin, Christopher. "Adam Smith and Liberal Economics: Reading the Minimum Wage Debate of 1795–96," Econ Journal Watch 8(2): 110–125, May 2011 [2] Archived 28 December 2013 at the Wayback Machine
 A Smith, Wealth of Nations (1776) Book I, ch 8
Bibliography
Benians, E. A. (1925). "II. Adam Smith's Project of an Empire". Cambridge Historical Journal. 1 (3): 249–283. doi:10.1017/S1474691300001062.
Bonar, James, ed. (1894). A Catalogue of the Library of Adam Smith. London: Macmillan. OCLC 2320634 – via Internet Archive.
Buchan, James (2006). The Authentic Adam Smith: His Life and Ideas. W.W. Norton & Company. ISBN 0393061213.
Buchholz, Todd (1999). New Ideas from Dead Economists: An Introduction to Modern Economic Thought. Penguin Books. ISBN 0140283137.
Bussing-Burks, Marie (2003). Influential Economists. Minneapolis: The Oliver Press. ISBN 1881508722.
Campbell, R.H.; Skinner, Andrew S. (1985). Adam Smith. Routledge. ISBN 0709934734.
Coase, R.H. (October 1976). "Adam Smith's View of Man". The Journal of Law and Economics. 19 (3): 529–546. doi:10.1086/466886. S2CID 145363933.
Helbroner, Robert L. The Essential Adam Smith. ISBN 0393955303
Nicholson, J. Shield (1909). A project of empire;a critical study of the economics of imperialism, with special reference to the ideas of Adam Smith. Macmillan and co., limited. hdl:2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t4th8nc9p.
Otteson, James R. (2002). Adam Smith's Marketplace of Life. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0521016568
Palen, Marc-William (2014). "Adam Smith as Advocate of Empire, c. 1870–1932" (PDF). The Historical Journal. 57: 179–198. doi:10.1017/S0018246X13000101. S2CID 159524069. Archived from the original (PDF) on 18 February 2020.
Rae, John (1895). Life of Adam Smith. London & New York: Macmillan. ISBN 0722226586. Retrieved 14 May 2018 – via Internet Archive.
Ross, Ian Simpson (1995). The Life of Adam Smith. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0198288212.
Ross, Ian Simpson (2010). The Life of Adam Smith (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press.
Skousen, Mark (2001). The Making of Modern Economics: The Lives and Ideas of Great Thinkers. M.E. Sharpe. ISBN 0765604809.
Smith, Adam (1977) [1776]. An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0226763749.
Smith, Adam (1982) [1759]. D.D. Raphael and A.L. Macfie (ed.). The Theory of Moral Sentiments. Liberty Fund. ISBN 0865970122.
Smith, Adam (2002) [1759]. Knud Haakonssen (ed.). The Theory of Moral Sentiments. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0521598478.
Smith, Vernon L. (July 1998). "The Two Faces of Adam Smith". Southern Economic Journal. 65 (1): 2–19. doi:10.2307/1061349. JSTOR 1061349. S2CID 154002759.
Tribe, Keith; Mizuta, Hiroshi (2002). A Critical Bibliography of Adam Smith. Pickering & Chatto. ISBN 978-1851967414.
Viner, Jacob (1991). Douglas A. Irwin (ed.). Essays on the Intellectual History of Economics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 0691042667.
Further reading
Wikisource logo
Wikisource has the text of A Short Biographical Dictionary of English Literature's article about Smith, Adam.
Library resources about
Adam Smith
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries
By Adam Smith
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries
Boettke, Peter J. (2024). "Why Read Adam Smith Today?". SSRN Electronic Journal. doi:10.2139/ssrn.4741993.
Butler, Eamonn (2007). Adam Smith – A Primer. Institute of Economic Affairs. ISBN 978-0255366083.
Evensky, Jerry. Adam Smith's Moral Philosophy: A Historical and Contemporary Perspective on Markets, Law, Ethics, and Culture. Cambridge University Press.
Cook, Simon J. (2012). "Culture & Political Economy: Adam Smith & Alfred Marshall". Tabur.
Copley, Stephen (1995). Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations: New Interdisciplinary Essays. Manchester University Press. ISBN 0719039436.
Glahe, F. (1977). Adam Smith and the Wealth of Nations: 1776–1976. University Press of Colorado. ISBN 0870810820.
Haakonssen, Knud (2006). The Cambridge Companion to Adam Smith. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0521779243.
Hamowy, Ronald (2008). "Smith, Adam (1723–1790)". The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage; Cato Institute. pp. 470–472. doi:10.4135/9781412965811.n287. ISBN 978-1412965804. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024.
Hardwick, D. and Marsh, L. (2014). Propriety and Prosperity: New Studies on the Philosophy of Adam Smith. Palgrave Macmillan
Henderson, David R., ed. (2008). "Adam Smith (1723–1790 )". The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics. Library of Economics and Liberty (2nd ed.). Liberty Fund. pp. 590–592. ISBN 978-0865976665.
Hollander, Samuel (1973). Economics of Adam Smith. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 080206302-0.
External videos
video icon Q&A interview with Glory Liu on Adam Smith's America, December 4, 2022, C-SPAN
Liu, Glory M. (2022). Adam Smith's America: How a Scottish Philosopher Became an Icon of American Capitalism. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691240879.
McLean, Iain (2006). Adam Smith, Radical and Egalitarian: An Interpretation for the 21st Century. Edinburgh University Press. ISBN 0748623523.
Milgate, Murray & Stimson, Shannon. (2009). After Adam Smith: A Century of Transformation in Politics and Political Economy. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691140377.
Mullen, Roger, Smith, Craig, and Mochrie, Robbie (eds.) (2023), Adam Smith: The Kirkcaldy Papers, Adam Smith Global Foundation, Kirkcaldy, ISBN 978-1399963497
Muller, Jerry Z. (1995). Adam Smith in His Time and Ours. Princeton University Press. ISBN 0691001618.
External videos
video icon Presentation by Jesse Norman on Adam Smith: What He Thought, and Why It Matters, September 19, 2018, C-SPAN
Norman, Jesse (2018). Adam Smith: What He Thought, and Why It Matters. Allen Lane.
O'Rourke, P.J. (2006). On The Wealth of Nations. Grove/Atlantic Inc. ISBN 0871139499.
Otteson, James (2002). Adam Smith's Marketplace of Life. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0521016568.
Otteson, James (2013). Adam Smith. Bloomsbury. ISBN 978-1441190130.
Phillipson, Nicholas (2010). Adam Smith: An Enlightened Life, Yale University Press, ISBN 978-0300169270, 352 pages; scholarly biography
Pichet, Éric (2004). Adam Smith, je connais !, French biography. ISBN 978-2843720406
Rommel, T., Winter, H. (2025). Adam Smith: The Wealth of Nations. An Introduction. Springer Graduate Texts in Philosophy. Springer Academic Press. ISBN 978-3031916182.
Vianello, F. (1999). "Social accounting in Adam Smith", in: Mongiovi, G. and Petri F. (eds.), Value, Distribution and capital. Essays in honour of Pierangelo Garegnani, London: Routledge, ISBN 0415142776.
Winch, Donald (2007) [2004]. "Smith, Adam". Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/25767. (Subscription, Wikipedia Library access or UK public library membership required.)
Wolloch, N. (2015). "Symposium on Jack Russell Weinstein's Adam Smith's Pluralism: Rationality, Education and the Moral Sentiments". Cosmos + Taxis
"Adam Smith and Empire: A New Talking Empire Podcast", Imperial & Global Forum, 12 March 2014.
External links
Adam Smith
at Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikimedia Commons logoMedia from Commons
Quotations from Wikiquote
Wikisource logoTexts from Wikisource
Adam Smith at Standard Ebooks
Works by Adam Smith at Open Library Edit this at Wikidata
Works by Adam Smith at Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Adam Smith at the Internet Archive
Works by Adam Smith at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
References to Adam Smith in historic European newspapers
"Adam Smith". Archived from the original on 17 May 2009. Retrieved 17 May 2009. at the Adam Smith Institute
Academic offices
Preceded by
Robert Cunninghame Graham of Gartmore
Rector of the University of Glasgow
1787–1789	Succeeded by
Walter Campbell of Shawfield
vte
Adam Smith
Articles related to Adam Smith
Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
Categories: Adam Smith1723 births1790 deaths18th-century Scottish male writers18th-century Scottish philosophers18th-century Scottish writersAcademics of the University of GlasgowAlumni of Balliol College, OxfordAlumni of the University of GlasgowBritish classical liberal economistsBritish male non-fiction writersBurials at the Canongate KirkyardCapitalismClassical economistsBritish critics of workEnlightenment philosophersFellows of the Royal SocietyFellows of the Royal Society of EdinburghFounder fellows of the Royal Society of EdinburghMembers of the Philosophical Society of EdinburghPolitical realistsPeople of the Scottish EnlightenmentPeople from KirkcaldyPhilosophers of economicsPhilosophers of logicRectors of the University of GlasgowScottish business theoristsScottish economistsScottish libertariansScottish logiciansScottish scholars and academicsSocial philosophersVirtue ethicistsScottish economics writers18th-century British economists


Critique of political economy

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Appearance hide
Birthday mode (Baby Globe)

Disabled

Enabled
Learn more about Birthday mode
Text

Small

Standard

Large
Width

Standard

Wide
Color (beta)

Automatic

Light

Dark
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Part of a series on
Critique of political economy
Concepts
Works
18th–19th-century people
20th–21st-century people
Related topics
vte
Critique of political economy or simply the first critique of economy is a form of social critique that rejects the conventional ways of distributing resources. The critique also rejects what its advocates believe are unrealistic axioms, flawed historical assumptions,[1] and taking conventional economic mechanisms as a given[2][3] or as transhistorical (true for all human societies for all time).[4][5] The critique asserts the conventional economy is merely one of many types of historically specific ways to distribute resources, which emerged along with modernity (post-Renaissance Western society).[6][7][8]

Critics of political economy do not necessarily aim to create their own theories regarding how to administer economies.[1][3][9][10] Critics of economy commonly view "the economy" as a bundle of concepts and societal and normative practices, rather than being the result of any self-evident economic laws.[3][11] Hence, they also tend to consider the views which are commonplace within the field of economics as faulty, or simply as pseudoscience.[2][12]

There are multiple critiques of political economy today, but what they have in common is critique of what critics of political economy tend to view as dogma, i.e. claims of the economy as a necessary and transhistorical societal category.[3][13]

John Ruskin

John Ruskin portrayed in his thirties
In the 1860s, John Ruskin published his essay Unto This Last which he came to view as his central work.[14][15][16] The essay was originally written as a series of publications in a magazine, which ended up having to suspend the publications, due to the severe controversy the articles caused.[15] While Ruskin is generally known as an important art critic, his study of the history of art was a component that gave him some insight into the pre-modern societies of the Middle Ages, and their social organisation which he was able to contrast to his contemporary condition.[15][17] Ruskin attempted to mobilize a methodological/scientific critique of new political economy, as it was envisaged by the classical economists.[1][11]

Ruskin viewed the concept of "the economy" as a kind of "collective mental lapse or collective concussion", and he viewed the emphasis on precision in industry as a kind of slavery.[8][18] Due to the fact that Ruskin regarded the political economy of his time as "mad", he said that it interested him as much as "a science of gymnastics which had as its axiom that human beings in fact didn't have skeletons."[11] Ruskin declared that economics rests on positions that are exactly the same. According to Ruskin, these axioms resemble thinking, not that human beings do not have skeletons but rather that they consist entirely of skeletons. Ruskin wrote that he did not oppose the truth value of this theory, he merely wrote that he denied that it could be successfully implemented in the world in the state it was in.[11][15] He took issue with the ideas of "natural laws", "economic man", and the prevailing notion of value and aimed to point out the inconsistencies in the thinking of the economists.[1] He critiqued John Stuart Mill for thinking that "the opinions of the public" was reflected adequately by market prices.[19]

Ruskin coined illth to refer to unproductive wealth. Ruskin is not well known as a political thinker today but when in 1906 a journalist asked the first generation of Labour Party members of Parliament in the United Kingdom which book had most inspired them, Unto This Last emerged as an undisputed chart-topper.

... the art of becoming 'rich', in the common sense, is not absolutely nor finally the art of accumulating much money for ourselves, but also of contriving that our neighbours shall have less. In accurate terms, it is 'the art of establishing the maximum inequality in our own favour'.

— John Ruskin, Unto This Last
Criticism
Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels regarded much of Ruskin's critique as reactionary. His idealisation of the Middle Ages made them reject him as a "feudal utopian".[15]

Karl Marx

Karl Marx, author of Das Kapital
Part of a series on the
Marxian critique of
political economy

Concepts
Topics
Works
People
Journals
Related topics
Socialism portal
vte
Marx is probably the most famous critic of political economy, with his three-volume magnum opus, Das Kapital. Kritik der politischen Ökonomie (Capital: A Critique of Political Economy), as one of his most famous books (Capital volume 1 appeared in 1867; the later volumes were published posthumously, by Friedrich Engels.)[20] Marx's companion Engels engaged in critique of political economy in his 1844 Outlines of a Critique of Political Economy, which helped lay down some of the foundation for what Marx was to take further.[21][22][23]

Marx's critique of political economy encompasses the study and exposition of the mode of production and ideology of bourgeois society, and its critique of Realabstraktionen (real abstraction), that is, the fundamental economic, i.e. social categories present within what for Marx is the capitalist mode of production,[24][25] for example abstract labour.[clarification needed][3][26][verification needed][27] In contrast to the classics of political economy, Marx was concerned with lifting the ideological veil of surface phenomena and exposing the norms, axioms, social relations, institutions, and so on, that reproduced capital.[28]

The central works in Marx's critique of political economy are Grundrisse, A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy and Das Kapital. Marx's works are often explicitly named – for example: A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy, or Capital: A Critique of Political Economy.[29][20][13] Marx cited Engels' article Outlines of a Critique of Political Economy several times in Das Kapital. Trotskyists and other Leninists tend to implicitly or explicitly argue that these works constitute and or contain "economical theories", which can be studied independently.[30][31][32] This was also the common understanding of Marx's work on economy that was put forward by Soviet orthodoxy.[9][30] Since this is the case, it remains a matter of controversy whether Marx's critique of political economy is to be understood as a critique of the political economy or, according to the orthodox interpretation, another theory of economics.[33][34] The critique of political economy is considered the most important and most central project within Marxism, which has led (and continues to lead) to numerous approaches advanced within and outside academic circles.[13][35][36]

Foundational concepts
Labour and capital are historically specific forms of social relations, and labour is not the source of all wealth.[36][37][38]
Labour is the other side of the same coin as capital, labour presupposes capital, and capital presupposes labour.[37][39]
Money is not in any way something transhistorical or natural, which goes for the whole economy as well as the other categories specific to the mode of production, and its gains in value are constituted due to social relations rather than any inherent qualities.[37][40][41]
Marx's critique of the methodology of economics
Marx described the view of contemporaneous economists and theologians on social phenomena as similarly unscientific.[10][42]

Economists have a singular method of procedure. There are only two kinds of institutions for them, artificial and natural. The institutions of feudalism are artificial institutions, those of the bourgeoisie are natural institutions. In this, they resemble the theologians, who likewise establish two kinds of religion. Every religion which is not theirs is an invention of men, while their own is an emanation from God. When the economists say that present-day relations – the relations of bourgeois production – are natural, they imply that these are the relations in which wealth is created and productive forces developed in conformity with the laws of nature. These relations, therefore, are themselves natural laws independent of the influence of time. They are eternal laws that must always govern society. Thus, there has been history, but there is no longer any. There has been history, since there were the institutions of feudalism, and in these institutions of feudalism we find quite different relations of production from those of bourgeois society, which the economists try to pass off as natural and as such, eternal.

— Karl Marx, The Poverty of Philosophy[43]
Marx continued to emphasize the ahistorical thought of the modern economists in the Grundrisse, where he among other endeavors, critiqued the liberal economist Mill.[44] Marx also viewed the viewpoints which implicitly regarded the institutions of modernity as transhistorical as fundamentally deprived of historical understanding.[45][46]

Individuals producing in society, and hence the socially determined production of individuals, is, of course, the point of departure. The solitary and isolated hunter or fisherman, who serves Adam Smith and Ricardo as a starting point, is one of the unimaginative fantasies of eighteenth-century romances a la Robinson Crusoe; and despite the assertions of social historians, these by no means signify simply a reaction against over-refinement and reversion to a misconceived natural life. No more is Rousseau's contract social, which by means of a contract establishes a relationship and connection between subjects that are by nature independent, based on this kind of naturalism. ... The individual in this society of free competition seems to be rid of natural ties, etc., which made him an appurtenance of a particular, limited aggregation of human beings in previous historical epochs. The prophets of the eighteenth century, on whose shoulders Adam Smith and Ricardo were still wholly standing, envisaged this 18th-century individual – a product of the dissolution of feudal society on the one hand and of the new productive forces evolved since the sixteenth century on the other – as an ideal whose existence belonged to the past. They saw this individual not as a historical result, but as the starting point of history; not as something evolving in the course of history, but posited by nature, because for them this individual was in conformity with nature, in keeping with their idea of human nature. This delusion has been characteristic of every new epoch hitherto.

— Karl Marx, A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy (Introduction)

German edition of Das Kapital, a famous critique of political economy written by Marx
According to the French philosopher Jacques Rancière, what Marx understood, and what the economists failed to recognise was that the value-form is not something essential, but merely a part of the capitalist mode of production.[47]

On scientifically adequate research
Marx offered a critique regarding the idea of people being able to conduct scientific research in this domain.[48] He wrote:

In the domain of Political Economy, free scientific inquiry meets not merely the same enemies as in all other domains. The peculiar nature of the materials it deals with, summons as foes into the field of battle the most violent, mean, and malignant passions of the human breast, the Furies of private interest. The English Established Church, e.g., will more readily pardon an attack on 38 of its 39 articles than on 1/39 of its income. Nowadays atheism is culpa levis [a relatively slight sin, c.f. mortal sin], as compared with criticism of existing property relations.

— Karl Marx, Das Kapital (Preface to the First German Edition)
On vulgar economists
Marx criticized what he regarded as the false critique of political economy of his contemporaries, sometimes even more forcefully than when he critiqued the classical economists he described as vulgar economists. In Marx's view, the errors of some socialist authors led the workers' movement astray. He rejected Ferdinand Lassalle's iron law of wages, which he regarded as mere phraseology.[49] He also rejected Pierre-Joseph Proudhon's attempts to do what Hegel did for religion, law, and so on for political economy, as well as regarding what is social as subjective, and what was societal as merely subjective abstractions.[50][37]

Interpretations of Marx's critique of political economy
Part of a series on
Capitalism
Concepts
Systems
Theories
Ideologies
Origins
Development
Intellectuals
Related topics
icon Capitalism portal
icon Business portal
icon Economics portal
vte
Some scholars view Marx's critique as being a critique of commodity fetishism and the manner in which this concept expresses a criticism of modernity and its modes of socialisation.[51] Other scholars who engage with Marx's critique of political economy affirm the critique might assume a more Kantian sense, which transforms "Marx's work into a foray concerning the imminent antinomies that lie at the heart of capitalism, where politics and economy intertwine in impossible ways."[13]

Contemporary Marxian
Regarding contemporary Marxian critiques of political economy, these are generally accompanied by a rejection of the more naturalistically influenced readings of Marx, as well as other readings later deemed weltanschaaungsmarxismus (worldview Marxism),[9][52][53] that was popularised as late as toward the end of the 20th century.[9][52]

According to some scholars in this field, contemporary critiques of political economy and contemporary German Ökonomiekritik have been at least partly neglected in the anglophone world.[54]

Differences between critics of economy and critics of economical issues
One may differentiate between those who engage in critique of political economy, which takes on a more ontological character, where authors criticise the fundamental concepts and social categories which reproduce the economy as an entity.[3][10][11][55][56] While other authors, which the critics of political economy would consider only to deal with the surface phenomena of the economy, have a naturalized understanding of these social processes. Hence the epistemological differences between critics of economy and economists can also at times be very large.[44]

In the eyes of the critics of political economy, the critics of economic issues merely critique certain practices in attempts to implicitly or explicitly rescue the political economy; these authors might for example propose universal basic income or to implement a planned economy.[9][30][55][57]

Others
Contemporary
Economists
Richard D. Wolff
Steve Keen
John Komlos
Edward S. Herman[58]
Yanis Varoufakis[59]
Sociologists
Orlando Patterson, John Cowles professor of sociology at Harvard University, argues that economics is a pseudoscience.[60]
Philosophers
Slavoj Žižek[61]
Linguists
Noam Chomsky[58]
Historians
Moishe Postone
Historical
Historians
Thomas Carlyle[62]
Roman Rosdolsky[63]
Poets
Carl Jonas Love Almqvist[64]
August Strindberg[65]
Miscellaneous
Paul Lafargue[66]
See also
Anti-work
Chinese economic reform
Critique of work
Katrine Marçal
Hans-Georg Backhaus
Helmut Reichelt
Humanistic economics
Moishe Postone
Neue Marx-Lektüre
References
 Henderson, Willie (2000). John Ruskin's political economy. London: Routledge. ISBN 0-203-15946-2. OCLC 48139638. ... Ruskin attempted a methodological/scientific critique of political economy. He fixed on ideas of 'natural laws', 'economic man' and the prevailing notion of 'value' to point out gaps and inconsistencies in the system of classical economics.
 Murray, Patrick (March 2020). "The Illusion of the Economic: Social Theory without Social Forms". Critical Historical Studies. 7 (1): 19–27. doi:10.1086/708005.
 Louis, Althusser; Balibar, Etienne (1979). Reading Capital. Verso Editions. p. 158. OCLC 216233458. 'To criticize Political Economy' means to confront it with a new problematic and a new object: i.e., to question the very object of Political Economy
 Fareld, Victoria; Kuch, Hannes (2020). From Marx to Hegel and Back. doi:10.5040/9781350082700.ch-001. ISBN 978-1-3500-8267-0.
 Postone 1993, pp. 44, 192–216.
 Mortensen. "Ekonomi". Tidskrift för litteraturvetenskap. 3 (4): 9.[verification needed]
 Postone, Moishe (1995). Time, labor, and social domination : a reinterpretation of Marx's critical theory. Cambridge University Press. pp. 5, 130. ISBN 0-521-56540-5. OCLC 910250140.
 Jönsson, Dan (7 February 2019). "John Ruskin: En brittisk 1800-talsaristokrat för vår tid – OBS". sverigesradio.se (in Swedish). Sveriges Radio. Archived from the original on 5 March 2020. Retrieved 24 September 2021. Den klassiska nationalekonomin, som den utarbetats av John Stuart Mill, Adam Smith och David Ricardo, betraktade han som en sorts kollektivt hjärnsläpp ... [Transl. Ruskin viewed the classical political economy as it was developed by Mill, Smith, and Ricardo, as a kind of 'collective mental lapse'.]
 Ramsay, Anders (21 December 2009). "Marx? Which Marx? Marx's work and its history of reception". www.eurozine.com. Archived from the original on 12 February 2018. Retrieved 16 September 2021.
 Ruccio, David (10 December 2020). "Toward a critique of political economy | MR Online". mronline.org. Archived from the original on 15 December 2020. Retrieved 20 September 2021. Marx arrives at conclusions and formulates new terms that run directly counter to those of Smith, Ricardo, and the other classical political economists.
 Ruskin, John. Unto this Last. pp. 128–129.
 Patterson, Orlando; Fosse, Ethan. "Overreliance on the Pseudo-Science of Economics". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 9 February 2015. (OpEd)
 Ruda, Frank; Hamza, Agon (2016). "Introduction: Critique of Political Economy" (PDF). Crisis and Critique. 3 (3): 5–7.
 Ruskin, John (1877). Unto This Last, and Other Essays on Political Economy. Sunnyside, Orpington, Kent: George Allen – via Project Gutenberg.
 Jönsson, Dan (7 February 2019). "John Ruskin: En brittisk 1800 – talsaristokrat för vår tid? – OBS". sverigesradio.se (in Swedish). Sveriges Radio. Retrieved 16 September 2021.
 Swann, G M Peter (2001). "'No Wealth But Life': When Does Mercantile Wealth Create Ruskinian Wealth?" (PDF). European Research Studies Journal. IV (3–4): 5–18.
 "Ruskin the radical: why the Victorian critic is back with a vengeance". The Guardian. 30 August 2018. Archived from the original on 30 August 2018. Retrieved 12 November 2021.
 "From Labor to Value: Marx, Ruskin, and the Critique of Capitalism". victorianweb.org. Retrieved 12 November 2021.
 Henderson, Willie (2000). John Ruskin's political economy. London: Routledge. p. 100. ISBN 0-203-15946-2. OCLC 48139638. Ruskin's criticism of Mill is that he based the science of political economy on 'the opinions of the public' as expressed by market prices, i.e. on 'fuddled' thought induced by contemplating the shadow of value rather than thinking upon, by implication, a true (Platonic) object of cognition.
 Conttren, V. (2022). István Mészáros: The Critique of Political Economy (Preprint). doi:10.17605/OSF.IO/65MXD.
 "Deutsch- Französische Jahrbucher" [German-French Yearbooks]. www.marxists.org. Retrieved 16 September 2021.
 Liedman, Sven-Eric. "Engelsismen" [Engelsism] (PDF). Fronesis (in Swedish) (28): 134. Engels var också först med att kritiskt bearbeta den nya nationalekonomin; hans 'Utkast till en kritik av nationalekonomin' kom ut 1844 och blev en utgångspunkt för Marx egen kritik av den politiska ekonomin [Engels was the first to critically engage the new political economy his Outlines of a Critique of Political Economy came out in 1844 and became a starting point for Marx's own critique of the political economy]
 Murray, Patrick (March 2020). "The Illusion of the Economic: Social Theory without Social Forms". Critical Historical Studies. 7 (1): 19–27. doi:10.1086/708005. 'There are no counterparts to Marx's economic concepts in either classical or utility theory.' I take this to mean that Marx breaks with economics, where economics is understood to be a generally applicable social science.
 "Marx Ekonomikritik". Fronesis (in Swedish) (28). Retrieved 1 September 2021.
 Bellofiore, Riccardo (2016). "Marx after Hegel: Capital as Totality and the Centrality of Production" (PDF). Crisis & Critique. 3 (3): 31.
 Jung, Henrik (1 January 2019). "Slagen av abstraktioner: Förnuftiga och reala abstraktioner i Marx ekonomikritik" [Battle of abstractions: Sensible and real abstractions in March's critique of economy]. Lychnos: Årsbok för idé- och lärdomshistoria (in Swedish). Marx consistently reveals the social abstraction of the substance of value and capital, i.e. abstract labour, as a Realabstraktion dominating individuals in bourgeois society through money and capital.
 Fareld, Victoria; Kuch, Hannes (9 January 2020). From Marx to Hegel and back capitalism, critique, and utopia. Ann Arbor, Michigan: Bloomsbury Academic. pp. 150, 143. ISBN 978-1-350-08268-7. OCLC 1141198381.
 Freeman, Alan. "The psychopathology of Walrasian Marxism" (PDF). Munich Personal RePEc Archive. Archived (PDF) from the original on 10 April 2018. 'Economic' categories, appearing as inhuman things with a mind of their own – prices, money, interest rates – are for Marx the disguised form of relations between people.
 Balibar, Étienne (2007). The philosophy of Marx. London: Verso. p. 18. ISBN 978-1-84467-187-8. OCLC 154707531. The expression 'critique of political economy' figures repeatedly in the title or programme of Marx's main works ... To these we may add a great many unpublished pieces, articles and sections in polemical works.
 Volkov, Genrikh Nikolaevich (1982). The Basics of Marxist-Leninist Theory. Progress guides to the social sciences. Moscow: Progress. pp. 51, 188, 313. OCLC 695564556.
 Ernest, Mandel (1973). An introduction to Marxist economic theory. Pathfinder. ISBN 0-87348-315-4. OCLC 609440295.
 Brooks, Mick (12 July 2005). "An introduction to Marx's Labour Theory of Value". In Defence of Marxism. Retrieved 16 September 2021.
 "Excerpt from discussion on SPSM listserv on whether Capital can be understood as a "critique" of political economy or as "Marxist" political economy, highlighting the view of Juan Inigo". www.marxists.org.
 Wolff, Jonathan; Leopold, David (2 September 2021). "Karl Marx". In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University – via Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
 "Programme of the French Worker's Party". Marxists Internet Archive. Retrieved 27 October 2021.
 Postone 1993.
 Marx, Karl; Nicolaus, Martin (1993). Grundrisse: foundations of the critique of political economy (rough draft). London: Penguin Books in association with New Left Review. pp. 296, 239, 264. ISBN 0-14-044575-7. OCLC 31358710.
 "Marx's Critique of Classical Economics". www.marxists.org. Archived from the original on 9 March 2001. Retrieved 2 October 2021.
 Pradella, Lucia (2015). Globalisation and the critique of political economy: new insights from Marx's writings. Abingdon, Oxfordshire. p. 147. ISBN 978-1-317-80072-9. OCLC 897376910.
 Saitō, Kōhei (2017). Karl Marx's ecosocialism: capitalism, nature, and the unfinished critique of political economy. New York. ISBN 978-1-58367-643-1. OCLC 1003193200. Marx's critique of classical political economy as a critique of the fetishistic (that is, ahistorical) understanding of economic categories, which identifies the appearance of capitalist society with the universal and transhistorical economic laws of nature. Marx, in contrast, comprehends those economic categories as 'specific social forms' and reveals the underlying social relations that bestow an objective validity of this inverted world where economic things dominate human beings.
 Behrens, Diethard (1993). Gesellschaft und Erkenntnis. Freiburg im Breisgau: Ça ira. pp. 71–72. ISBN 3-924627-34-7. OCLC 30457885.
 Peperell (2018). "Beyond reification: Reclaiming Marx's Concept of the Fetish Character of the Commodity" (PDF). Kontradikce: A Journal for Critical Thought. 2: 35.
 "2.1". The Poverty of Philosophy. Retrieved 16 September 2021. {{cite book}}: |website= ignored (help)
 Marx. "Grundrisse". Archived from the original on 2 February 2002. The aim is, rather, to present production – see e.g. Mill – as distinct from distribution, etc., as encased in eternal natural laws independent of history, at which opportunity bourgeois relations are then quietly smuggled in as the inviolable natural laws on which society in the abstract is founded. This is the more or less conscious purpose of the whole proceeding. In distribution, by contrast, humanity has allegedly permitted itself to be considerably more arbitrary. Quite apart from this crude tearing-apart of production and distribution and of their real relationship, it must be apparent from the outset that, no matter how different distribution may have been arranged in different stages of social development, it must be possible here also, just as with production, to single out common characteristics, and just as possible to confound or to extinguish all historic differences under general human laws.
 Ruccio, David (10 December 2020). "Toward a critique of political economy". MR Online. Archived from the original on 15 December 2020. Retrieved 20 September 2021. Second, Marx's concern is always with social and historical specificity, as against looking for or finding what others would consider being given and universal.
 Duarte, Filipe (4 February 2019). "Marx's method of political economy". Progress in Political Economy (PPE). Retrieved 14 February 2022. Social phenomena exist, and can be understood, only in their historical context.
 Rancière, Jacques (August 1976). "The concept of 'critique' and the 'critique of political economy' (from the 1844 Manuscript to Capital)". Economy and Society. 5 (3): 352–376. doi:10.1080/03085147600000016.
 Marx, Karl (1887) [1867]. Capital: A Critique of Political Economy (PDF). Vol. I: The Process of Production of Capital – via www.marxists.org.
 Bellofiore, Riccardo, ed. (27 May 2009). Rosa Luxemburg and the Critique of Political Economy. Routledge. p. 161. doi:10.4324/9780203878392. ISBN 978-1-134-13507-3.
 "The Poverty of Philosophy – Chapter 2.1". Marxists Internet Archive. Retrieved 25 September 2021.
 Pimenta, Tomás Lima (August 2020). "Alienation and fetishism in Karl Marx's critique of political economy". Nova Economia. 30 (2): 605–628. doi:10.1590/0103-6351/4958.
 "Läs kapitalet – igen" [Read Capital – again] (PDF). Fronesis. 28: 12 (p.5 in the pdf). [His striving to develop a materialist ontology and a unitary theory, which could speak on all parts of reality, made a wider use for the schools and parties in the east which far into the sixties and seventies stood for different forms of worldview Marxism.]
 "Läs kapitalet – igen" [Read Capital – again] (PDF). Fronesis. 28: 10 (p.3 in the pdf).
 O’Kane, Chris (29 January 2018). "On the Development of the Critique of Political Economy as a Critical Social Theory of Economic Objectivity". Historical Materialism. 26 (1): 175–193. doi:10.1163/1569206X-12341552. ... a number of important critical- theoretical approaches to the critique of political economy ... have been largely neglected in the anglophone world.
 Henderson, Willie (2012). "Xenophon, Ruskin and economic management". John Ruskin's Political Economy. pp. 64–85. doi:10.4324/9780203024263-4. ISBN 978-0-203-02426-3. It could be argued that Ruskin, like Plato, is addressing the problems of society as a whole rather than addressing economic issues. Nonetheless, he approaches such concerns through a critique of political economy.
 Arthur, Chris (2004). The New Dialectic and Marx's Capital. pp. 8, 232–233. doi:10.1163/9789047402886. ISBN 978-90-474-0288-6.
 Ayres, Robert (12 August 2020). "How Universal Basic Income Could Save Capitalism". INSEAD Knowledge. Retrieved 17 September 2021.
 Herman, Edward S. and Noam Chomsky. Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media. New York, Pantheon Books, 2002.
 Cadwalladr, Carole (24 September 2023). "'Capitalism is dead. Now we have something much worse': Yanis Varoufakis on extremism, Starmer, and the tyranny of big tech". The Observer. Retrieved 24 October 2024.
 Patterson, Orlando; Fosse, Ethan (9 February 2015). "Overreliance on the Pseudo-Science of Economics". www.nytimes.com. (OpEd)
 Hamza, Agon. "Re-reading Capital 150 years after: some Philosophical and Political Challenges" (PDF). Continental Thought & Theory: A Journal of Intellectual Freedom: 158–159. This is the Žižekian lesson: Marx's critique of political economy is not only a critique of the classical political economy (Smith, Ricardo...), but it is also a form of critique, a transcendental one according to Žižek, which allows us to articulate the elementary forms of social edifice under capitalism itself. And this 'transcendental' framework, cannot be other than philosophical.
 Alexander Jordan, Thomas Carlyle and Political Economy: The 'Dismal Science' in Context, The English Historical Review, Vol. 132, Iss.555, April 2017, pp. 286–317, doi:10.1093/ehr/cex068
 Broady, Donald (1978) (http://www.skeptron.uu.se/broady/arkiv/dba-b-19780002-broady-aterupptackten-faksimil.pdf)
 "Litteraturens värden – Lunds universitet" (in Swedish). Retrieved 2 September 2021.
 "Vad är ekonomi?-citat". citatboken.se (in Swedish).
 "Rätten till lättja". Retrieved 2 September 2021.
Bibliography
Postone, Moishe (1993). Time, Labor and Social Domination: A Reinterpretation of Marx's Critical Theory. New York and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9780521391573. OCLC 231578868.
Johnsdotter S, Carlbom A, editors. Goda sanningar: debattklimatet och den kritiska forskningens villkor. Lund: Nordic Academic Press; 2010.
Braudel F. Kapitalismens dynamik. (La Dynamique du Capitalisme) [Ny utg.]. Gothenburg: Daidalos; 2001.
Ankarloo D, editor. Marx ekonomikritik. Stockholm: Tidskriftsföreningen Fronesis; 2008.
Eklund K. Vår ekonomi: en introduktion till världsekonomin. Upplaga 15. Lund: Studentlitteratur; 2020.
Tidskriftsföreningen Fronesis. Arbete. Stockholm: Tidskriftsfören. Fronesis; 2002.
Baudrillard J. The Mirror of Production. Telos Press; 1975.
Marx K. Till kritiken av den politiska ekonomin. [Ny utg.]. Göteborg: Proletärkultur; 1981.
Further reading
Articles
Scholarly articles
Finlayson, Alan Christopher; Lyson, Thomas A.; Pleasant, Andrew; Schafft, Kai A.; Torres, Robert J. (July 2005). "The 'Invisible Hand': Neoclassical Economics and the Ordering of Society1". Critical Sociology. 31 (4): 515–536. doi:10.1163/156916305774482183.
Márkus, György; Schmidt, Alfred (1969). Beiträge zur marxistischen Erkenntnistheorie (in German). OCLC 1185715638.
Granberg, Magnus (October 2015). "The ideal worker as real abstraction: labour conflict and subjectivity in nursing". Work, Employment and Society. 29 (5): 792–807. doi:10.1177/0950017014563102.
Granberg, Magnus (June 2022). "Reactionary radicalism and the analysis of worker subjectivity in Marx's critique of political economy". Capital & Class. 46 (2): 279–299. doi:10.1177/03098168211037404.
Mau, Søren (8 June 2018). "Den dobbelte fordrejning: Begrebet fetichisme i kritikken af den politiske økonomi" [The Double Inversion – the Concept of Fetishism in the Critique of Political Economy]. Slagmark - Tidsskrift for idéhistorie (in Danish) (77): 103–122. doi:10.7146/slagmark.vi77.124228.
Trawick, Paul; Hornborg, Alf (2015). "Revisiting the Image of Limited Good: On Sustainability, Thermodynamics, and the Illusion of Creating Wealth". Current Anthropology. 56 (1): 1–27. doi:10.1086/679593. JSTOR 10.1086/679593.
Romantic critique of political economy articles
Mortensen, Anders – Att göra "penningens genius till sin slaf". Om Carl Jonas Love Almqvists romantiska ekonomikritik – Vetenskapssocieteten i Lund. Årsbok (in Swedish).
Books
Critique of political economy
Bernard Steigler (2010) – For a New Critique of Political Economy
Bonefield Werner (2014) – Critical Theory and the Critique of Political Economy: On Subversion and Negative Reason
Gibson-Graham, J. K. – The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It): A Feminist Critique of Political Economy
Baudrillard, Jean – The Mirror of Production
Baudrillard, Jean – For a Critique of the Political Economy of the Sign
Lawson, T. (1997). Economics and reality. Routledge.
Nelson, Robert Henry. Economics as religion : from Samuelson to Chicago and beyond; foreword by Max Stackhouse. 2001. ISBN 0271020954
Marçal, Katrine Mother of Invention: How Good Ideas Get Ignored in an Economy Built for Men ISBN 978-0-00-843077-1 English edition of Att uppfinna världen
Marçal, Katrine 2012 – Det enda könet (Who Cooked Adam Smith's Dinner?) ISBN 978-91-0-012461-8
On Marx critique of political economy
Murray, Patrick (2016) – The mismeasure of wealth – Essays on Marx and social form, Brill
Kurz, Robert, 1943–2012. The substance of capital / Robert Kurtz ; translated from German by Robin Halpin. 2016. ISBN 9780995609501
Neue Marx-Lektüre
Elbe, Ingo (2010). Marx Im Westen. Die neue Marx-Lektüre in der Bundesrepublik seit 1965 [Marx in the west. The new reading of Marx in the Federal Republic since 1965]. Berlin: Akademie Verlag. ISBN 9783050061214. OCLC 992454101.
History
Bryer, Robert – Accounting for History in Marx's Capital: The Missing Link
Kurz, Robert, 1943–2012, Schwarzbuch Kapitalismus: ein Abgesang auf die Marktwirtschaft (also known as: The Satanic Mills) – 2009 – Erweit. Neuasg. ISBN 978-3-8218-7316-9
Pilling, Geoff, Marx's Capital, Philosophy and Political Economy
Classic works
Lietz, Barbara (1987). "Ergänzungen und Veränderungen zum ersten Band des Kapitals (Dezember 1871 – Januar 1872)" [Additions and changes to the first volume of Das Kapital (December 1871 – January 1872)]. Marxistische Studien: Jahrbuch des IMSF. Vol. 12. p. S. 214–219. OCLC 915229108.
Marx, Karl – Grundrisse
Ruskin, John, Unto this Last LibriVox.
Essays
Postone, Moishe (1978). "Necessity, Labor, and Time: A Reinterpretation of the Marxian Critique of Capitalism". Social Research. 45 (4): 739–788. JSTOR 40970352. INIST 12734128 ProQuest 1297231605.
External links
1995–2004 Conference Papers – Critique Of Political Economy / International Working Group on Value Theory (COPE-IWGVT)
A collection of material related to Engels and Marx's critique of political economy
Critique of Political Economy – a 2016 edition of the philosophy journal: crisis and critique Archived 22 August 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Postone, Moishe (Fall 2015). Capitalism, Temporality, and the Crisis of Labor. Ellen Maria Gorrissen lectures. A lecture regarding Marx's critique of political economy.
Texts translated to english from a contemporary German group critical of political economy
Baker, Erik (6 August 2025). "The History of Economics as Science Critique: Demystification and Its Limits". History of Political Economy 12134478. doi:10.1215/00182702-12134478.
vte
Critique of political economy
vte
Political philosophy
Categories: CriticismsCritique of political economyPhilosophy of economicsSocial philosophy
This page was last edited on 17 December 2025, at 14:08 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.